

--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 10.bullying_and_harassment_policy.pdf

Bullying and harassment policy

This policy does not form part of the employee’s contract of employment
and may be amended by the company from time to time.

. Our policy

Every employee should be treated with dignity and respect at work. Arnold
Clark is an equal opportunities employer that fully adheres to the Equality
Act 2010. The Equality Act 2010 legally protects people from discrimination
in the workplace and in wider society.

It is against the law to discriminate against anyone based on the following
nine protected characteristics:

e Age e Race

¢ Gender reassignment e Religion

e Marriage or civil partnership e Sex

e Pregnancy ¢ Sexual orientation
e Disability

Arnold Clark is committed to maintaining a working environment that is free
from harassment, victimisation and bullying, whether it is related to sexual
orientation, race, religion, gender reassignment, gender identity, religion,
disability, age, pregnancy and any other factor that is unlawful.

Harassment at work in any form is unacceptable behaviour and we have a

zero tolerance approach in ensuring that harassment will not be permitted
or condoned. The policy applies not only in the workplace but also outside
it where there is an occasion that is directly connected with an individual’s
employment; for example at an office party or on a business trip.

Employees have the right to complain of harassment and all complaints will
be dealt with seriously, promptly, with confidentiality and in accordance
with the company’s grievance policy.

All employees have a role to play by assisting the company in complying
with this policy. They can help prevent harassment through an awareness of
and sensitivity towards such issues and by ensuring that their conduct and
that of their colleagues does not cause offence.

@ communication

5
U2Z2581


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 10.bullying_and_harassment_policy.pdf

Employees at all levels should be aware of their responsibilities in
ensuring that such harassment is not a feature of our workplace. It is a
form of misconduct that can undermine the integrity of the employment
relationship. Harassment on the grounds of sex, race, religion, disability,
age, gender identity or sexual orientation constitutes discrimination and is
unlawful, as per the Equality Act 2010. Harassment may also be a

civil offence and a criminal offence and it may contravene health and
safety legislation.

The company will take appropriate disciplinary action against any employee
who does not comply with this policy, which may include dismissal. An
employee who retaliates against another employee who has complained
about harassment or any employee who intentionally makes a false claim of
harassment may have disciplinary action taken against them.

This policy prohibits all forms of harassment whether amounting to
unlawful conduct or not. It intends to prevent all forms of offensive and
unfair behaviour.

.What constitutes harassment?

Harassment is unwanted or offensive conduct that affects the dignity of
employees at work. It may be related to age, sex, race, disability, religion,
nationality, gender identity (please see glossary of terms for a more in-
depth list of terms related to gender identity), or any personal characteristic
of the individual, and may be a persistent or an isolated incident or occur on
a number of occasions. Such behaviour can create an intimidating, hostile
or humiliating working environment and affect an employee’s performance.

e Unwanted physical contact such as unnecessary touching, patting,
pinching or brushing up against another employee's body, insulting or
abusive behaviour or gestures, physical threats or assault.

¢ Unwanted comments of a sexual, racial or religious nature or which relate
to an individual’s age, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation.

¢ Unwanted non-verbal behaviour of a sexual, racial, homophobic, biphobic
or transphobic nature.

¢ Unwanted comments relating to disability and/or jokes concerning
disability, as well as mimicking disabled people.

¢ Overbearing supervision or other misuse of Power or position.

e¢ Bullying including persistent criticism and personal abuse, either in public
or private, which humiliates or demeans the individual involved.

e Exclusion or victimisation: Deliberately withholding information or
scheduling meetings without that person present.

e Exclusion or victimisation on the grounds of transphobia: For example,
excluding a trans person from meetings by deliberately scheduling them
at times when they know the individual is on leave to attend a gender
clinic appointment.

e¢ Forcing a non-binary individual to wear either ‘male or female’ clothing
while at work.

96


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 10.bullying_and_harassment_policy.pdf

e Misgendering individuals by deliberately using incorrect pronouns Cie.
Calling someone ‘he’ when they identify as a woman.)

e Making inappropriate jokes or gestures about an individual based on their
sexual orientation or gender identity.

Harrassment can also be on a much smaller scale than the examples listed
above. For example, it could be an individual experiencing a change in
behaviour from a fellow employee after disclosing that they are bisexual
or gay.

The essential characteristic of harrassment is that is unwanted. It is for
individuals to determine what behaviour is acceptable to them and what
they regard as offensive.

It is important to remember that behaviour that is acceptable to one
employee may not be acceptable to another. It is the impact of the
behaviour that is relevant and not the nature or intent behind it.

Harassment is not always carried out face-to-face, it may take the form of
written communications, emails or over the telephone.

. Prevention

Arnold Clark recognises that it is the duty of all employees to accept their
personal responsibility for fostering a fully integrated community at work,
by adhering to the principles of equal opportunity. All our managers and
employees are required by the company to ensure that no discriminatory
practices occur and we will strive to ensure that this is the case. All staff are
required to:

e Make sure that they treat everyone fairly and without bias.

e Not harass, victimise or bully any employee or client.

e Recognise, accept and value people’s differences and abilities.
e Not stereotype or generalise people or groups of people.

e Listen and respect everyone’s views regardless of their background,
gender, beliefs or experience.

e Draw any discriminatory act or practices to the attention of managers.

¢ Carry out duties at all times with due regard to the company’s equal
opportunities policy.

Each employee has a personal responsibility for the practical application
of this policy and to ensure that Arnold Clark achieves its equality
objectives. The successful implementation of this policy depends on
everyone treating each other with the respect and dignity they would
rightly expect from others.

Managers and supervisors have particular responsibility for the practical
application of this policy and for ensuring a harmonious working
environment. They will be responsible for addressing and eliminating any
situation involving bullying, harassment or any other forms of discrimination.
Arnold Clark undertakes to provide the necessary support and training,
which will include awareness of discrimination legislation and its impact on
decisions they make.

97


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 10.bullying_and_harassment_policy.pdf

4.Procedure

4.1. Informal

Most recipients of harassment simply want it to stop. Employees may
therefore want to resolve the problem informally, if this is possible. In some
cases it may be sufficient for the employee to explain clearly, verbally

or in writing, to the person engaging in the unwanted conduct that

their behaviour is not welcome and should stop. However, the company
recognises that there will be circumstances when it may be embarrassing
for an employee to do this or if the behaviour continues after they have
asked for it to stop. In such a situation, the employee is encouraged to
approach their line manager or the People Team for advice and assistance.
They can then assist the employee in attempting to resolve the problem
informally by approaching, on the employee’s behalf, the person engaging
in the unwanted conduct. Alternatively, they can discuss with the employee
the possibility of a complaint through formal channels.

4.2. Formal

If it is not appropriate to deal with the problem by informal means, the
employee can choose to raise their complaint through the company’s
formal grievance procedure by making a formal complaint to their line
manager or to the People Team. The complaint must be made in writing.
Please see the company’s grievance policy for further details.

5. Formal investigation

All allegations of harassment will be taken seriously and will be dealt with
as quickly as possible, with due regard to confidentiality and in accordance
with the company’s grievance policy. The People Team will ensure that the
complaint is carefully investigated, that it is sensitively handled and that
the rights of all involved are respected. In certain circumstances, it may be
appropriate to require any person involved to take paid leave of absence
until the process has been completed. That will not be an indication that
any views have been formed about the complaint.

The employee making the complaint will be interviewed to establish

the full details of the complaint. The employee will have the right to be
accompanied at all meetings by a work colleague or an accredited trade
union representative. The alleged harasser will also be interviewed and
normally this will be done separately.

The person investigating the complaint will not be connected with the
allegation and will ensure that an independent and objective assessment

is made and that the wishes of the complainant are considered. The
complainant will then be informed of the outcome of the investigation. The
complainant will have the right to appeal the decision if they disagree with
the outcome.

98


--- New Page 5 ---
Page number: 5
Title of ebook of origin: 10.bullying_and_harassment_policy.pdf

As a result of such an investigation, a disciplinary meeting may be called
under our disciplinary procedures. The same person who conducted the
investigation would not usually conduct the disciplinary meeting unless we
consider this appropriate. The outcome of that process will be confidential.

In the event that any employee makes an unfounded allegation of
harassment for malicious reasons, such cases will be dealt with under the
disciplinary procedure.

6. Counselling

Counselling services are available to all employees through our healthcare
provider that offers a confidential service staffed by professionals. Please
contact the People Team on 0141 648 1390 for further information.

7. The procedure at a glance

Harrassment occurs

 

Do nothing/Monitor

Informal | Formal |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fi)
Harrassment Harrassment Take personal action Submit a written
stops continues or discuss informally grievance to
with line manager/ People Team
Consider informal Formal

and/or Harrassment Harrassment investigation
formal procedure stops continues )
Ei

Grievance

Consider formal outcome advised

to complainant

procedure

 

Complainant has

right to appeal
outcome if unhappy

 

 
      
    
     
   

Is there a charge
to answer?

 

   
  

No
Investigation ends

Yes
Disciplinary
procedure instigated
and appropriate
action taken

  
 
