

--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 11.equal_opportunities_policy.pdf

Equal opportunities policy

This policy does not form part of the employee’s contract of employment
and may be amended by the company from time to time.

. Our policy

Equality Act 2010

Arnold Clark is an equal opportunities employer that fully adheres to the
Equality Act 2010. The Equality Act 2010 legally protects people from
discrimination in the workplace and in wider society.

It is against the law to discriminate against anyone based on the following
nine protected characteristics:

e Age e Race

¢ Gender reassignment e Religion

e Marriage or civil partnership e Sex

e Pregnancy ¢ Sexual orientation
e Disability

Arnold Clark takes a zero-tolerance approach to all forms of unlawful and
unfair discrimination in relation to any of the protected characteristics listed
under the Equality Act 2010 with the inclusion of gender identity (please
see glossary of terms to ensure awareness of definitions).

Arnold Clark’s policy is to recruit, retain, develop, reward and promote
people based on objective criteria, without regard to ethnic origins, race,
nationality, colour, gender identity, marital status, sexual orientation,
disability, religion and beliefs or age, or any other unlawful criteria unless
this is justifiable regarding relevant aptitudes, potential, skills and abilities.

It is Arnold Clark’s legal responsibility to ensure that no applicant or
employee shall be placed at an unlawful disadvantage by requirements

or conditions which are not necessary to the performance of the job. As
such, Arnold Clark will make provisions to ensure that there are no barriers
that prevent any person protected by the Equality Act 2010 from applying
for and being successful in applying for employment by the company. We
simply want the best person for the job and a genuinely diverse workforce.

FAMILY

160


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 11.equal_opportunities_policy.pdf

2.

3.1.

It is important to us that the workforce of the business is as representative
as possible of the community it serves. Arnold Clark is committed to the
promotion of equal opportunities and to ensure that the talent and skills of
all employees are maximised. Arnold Clark’s policy is to treat all employees
with respect and dignity and to ensure that decisions are taken without
reference to irrelevant or discriminatory criteria.

What constitutes discrimination?

e Inappropriate comments, behaviours or stereotyping individuals either

directly or by association based on race, sexual orientation, gender
identity, disability, and any other protected characteristic.

e Excluding people from elements of employment, either directly or by

association due to race, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity,
disability, and any other protected characteristic.

e Expressing negative stereotypes about particular groups or using

stereotypes as a basis for decisions about work e.g. ‘Women with young
children shouldn’t work’ or ‘older workers can’t learn new skills.’

e Assuming that because a person is married that it is to the opposite

sex (e.g. always referring to a woman’s partner as a man when they are
married to a woman).

It is important to recognise that this list is not exhaustive and that the main
characteristic of harassment that stems from discrimination is that it is
unwanted. It is for individuals to determine what behaviour is acceptable to
them and what is acceptable to one employee, may not be to another. It is
therefore the impact of this behaviour that is relevant and not the nature
or intent behind it. Further information on this can be found in the
Harassment Policy.

.Employee lifecycle

Arnold Clark ensures that the principles of the Equality Act 2010 are
followed at every stage of the employee lifecycle; from seeing a job
advertisement to settling in and interacting with customers and clients.

Recruitment process

Job advertisements (both internal and external) will be non-discriminatory.
Job advertisements are written and reviewed by a team of experienced
copywriters who monitor that specific standards are adhered to and that
the language used could not be perceived to be discriminatory against any
particular group. Following this, all those involved in assessing candidates
for Cinternal and external recruitment or promotion) will be trained in non-
discriminatory recruitment and selection techniques.

101


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 11.equal_opportunities_policy.pdf

3.2. In the workplace

Arnold Clark recognises that it is the duty of all employees to accept their
personal responsibility for fostering a fully integrated community at work,
by adhering to the principles of equal opportunity. All our managers and
employees are required by the company to ensure that no discriminatory
practices occur and we will strive to ensure that this is indeed the case. All
staff are required to:

e Make sure that they treat e Listen and respect everyone’s

everyone fairly and without bias. views regardless of their
background, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity,
beliefs or experience.

e Not harass, victimise or bully any
employee or client.

e Recognise, accept and value

people’s differences and abilities. * Draw to the attention of

managers any discriminatory act
e Not stereotype or generalise or practices.

people or groups of people. ; ; ;
P ¢ Carry out duties at all times with

due regard to the company’s
equal opportunities policy.

Each employee has personal responsibility for the practical application
of this policy and to ensure that Arnold Clark achieves its equality
objectives. The successful implementation of this policy depends on
everyone treating each other with the respect and dignity they would
rightly expect from others.

Managers and supervisors have particular responsibility for the practical
application of this policy and for ensuring a harmonious working
environment. They will be responsible for addressing and eliminating any
situation involving bullying, harassment or any other forms of direct and/or
indirect discrimination. Arnold Clark undertakes to provide the necessary
support and training, which will include awareness of discrimination
legislation and its impact on decisions they make.

3.3. Dealing with customers, clients and service users

Arnold Clark seeks to ensure that all employees enjoy coming to work and
are not subject to discrimination or harassment from customers, clients or
service users. We have a legal obligation to ensure that no person faces
discrimination on the grounds of any protected characteristics, inclusive of
gender identity, when accessing our services, either as an employee, client
or customer.

Should you experience or witness any discriminatory act or practices then
this should be reported to a member of management or the People Team.

102


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 11.equal_opportunities_policy.pdf

4.Responsibility

Arnold Clark can only act to prevent individuals from breaking this policy
if it knows about the conduct. If you have a concern about an equal
opportunities issue or if you believe that you have experienced direct,
indirect or unfair discrimination, harassment or victimisation, you should
speak to your manager informally. If the matter cannot be resolved
informally, you should use the company’s grievance procedure or

speak to the People Team. All complaints will be dealt with seriously,
properly and confidentially and every effort will be made to secure a
satisfactory resolution.

Behaviour of a discriminatory nature will not be tolerated within Arnold
Clark and may be considered to be gross misconduct. Where appropriate,
the company will take disciplinary action against any employee who
breaches this company policy, or is found guilty of victimising, bullying or
harassing another employee, or is otherwise found guilty of conduct in
contravention of the anti-discrimination laws.

183


--- New Page 5 ---
Page number: 5
Title of ebook of origin: 11.equal_opportunities_policy.pdf

5.Procedure

The below flow chart outlines the process that will be followed. Full
information can be found in the Harassment Policy.

Discrimination occurs

 

Do nothing/Monitor

Informal | Formal |

 

 

 

 

 

_————
Discrimination Discrimination Take personal action Submit a written
stops continues or discuss informally grievance to
with line manager/ People Team
People Team a,
Consider informal
Formal

and/or Discrimination Discrimination

. investigation
formal procedure stops continues

—l—

Grievance
outcome advised
to complainant

 

 

Consider formal
procedure

 

 

Complainant has
right to appeal
outcome if unhappy

 

 
      
  

Is there a charge
to answer?

 

   
  

No
Investigation ends

   
     
   

Yes
Disciplinary
procedure instigated
and appropriate
action taken

  

This policy will be strictly adhered to by all employees. Discrimination,
abuse or failure to observe this policy will result in disciplinary action being
taken, including summary dismissal in the most serious cases.

Arnold Clark will ensure that the policy is communicated to all employees
and made known to job applicants.

The People Team and directors will review and may amend this policy in line
with any changes in relevant legislation.

104%


--- New Page 6 ---
Page number: 6
Title of ebook of origin: 11.equal_opportunities_policy.pdf

Inclusive language

Using language that is as inclusive as possible is a key part of creating
a welcoming environment where everyone feels included. Language
is always shifting; it varies across cultures and people hold different
opinions so there isn’t a universal consensus. These recommendations
are provided only as guidelines and aren’t meant to censor opinions;
instead, we want to improve communication. This document isn’t
definitive; the most important thing is to consider the impact of your
language and be willing to learn and change.

General principles

1. Don’t mention a person’s gender, ethnicity etc. unless it is relevant.

2. Be gender neutral whenever you aren’t speaking about a specific
individual. Use they/them instead of she/her or he/him.

3. Be inclusive of non-binary identities by using phrases like ‘regardless
of gender’, ‘all genders’ or ‘different gender’ rather than ‘men and
women,’ ‘both genders’ or ‘opposite gender’.

4. Use person-first language. For example, people with disabilities as
opposed to disabled people or the disabled.

5. Avoid phrases that suggest victimhood when speaking about
disability, e.g., ‘afflicted by’, ‘victim of’, or ‘suffers from’. Instead, say
‘person with [condition]’.

6. Avoid euphemisms for disability like ‘differently abled’ or
‘special needs’.

7. Don’t use phrases or terms that make light of disabilities like ‘blind/
deaf to [something]’, ‘lame’, or ‘crazy’. Mental health diagnoses like
bipolar or OCD are conditions with serious impacts so don’t use them
to describe everyday behaviours.

8. Avoid using language that promotes damaging stereotypes, for
example saying ‘man up’ or referring to a woman as emotional.

9. When talking about an individual, use the language they use to refer
to themself.

10. If you aren’t sure, look it up or ask.

185


--- New Page 7 ---
Page number: 7
Title of ebook of origin: 11.equal_opportunities_policy.pdf

Examples:

Confined to a wheelchair; wheelchair-bound Person who uses a wheelchair
Mentally handicapped Person with a learning disability
The disabled; the handicapped Person with a disability; people with disabilities
Normal, healthy, able-bodied person People without a disability
Mental patient; insane; mad Person with a mental health condition
Deaf and dumb; deaf mute Person with a hearing impairment; hard
of hearing
(the) blind Person with visual impairments; people who

are blind and partially sighted

Cancer or dementia victims People living with cancer or dementia
Challenged or special Person with learning disability
Autistic adult An adult diagnosed with autism

Man, mankind Human, humankind

Ladies and gentlemen (when making Guests; friends; colleagues; everyone

an announcement)
Wife/husband; girlfriend/boyfriend Spouse; partner; significant other

Guys; girls; love; son; dear The person’s name; their professional title or
men or women

The transgender Trans people

Sexuality; sexual preference Sexual orientation

She/her/her’s and he/him/his They, them, theirs

Queer (only use if you identify as queer) Queer communities

The blanket term homosexual Gay, lesbian, bi-sexual, gay man, gay woman
Lesbians, gays, bisexuals Lesbian, gay, bisexual people

Mum/Dad Parent; guardian; caregiver

(the) Old; the elderly; pensioner Mature individual, older person, older people
(the) young Young person, young adults

A young and vibrant team An effective and vibrant team

A mature workforce An experienced workforce

Expectant mothers Pregnant people

Coloured people, Black or Asian when The term preferred by the individual e.g. Asian,
referring to all minority ethnic groups Afro Carribbean, Black etc.

Oriental (when referring to a person) East Asian

Minority group Minority ethnic group

Christian name First name, given name

186


--- New Page 8 ---
Page number: 8
Title of ebook of origin: 11.equal_opportunities_policy.pdf

Glossary

Ableism: Practices and dominant attitudes in society that assume there is
an ideal body and mind that is better than all others.

Cisgender: People whose gender identity matches the gender they were
assigned at birth. Used as a counterpart to transgender: people whose
gender identity does not match the gender they were assigned at birth.

Heteronormativity: A default assumption of heterosexuality and
stereotypical gender norms.

Intersectionality: The interconnected nature of social categorisations
such as race, disability, and gender that can create overlapping and
interdependent systems of discrimination or disadvantage.

Invisible (or hidden) disability: A disability that is not externally
apparent, such as a mental illness, chronic fatigue syndrome or diabetes.

Neurodiversity: The idea that neurological differences like autism and
ADHD should be recognised and respected as any other human variation.

Non-binary: Any gender identity that does not fit the male and
female binary.

Privilege: A right or advantage that only some people have access or
availability to because of their social group membership.

Reclaimed language/words: Words with a history of derogatory use that
members of the oppressed group have decided to use for themselves.
Sometimes these types of words are still controversial within the
community, like queer, and sometimes it is acceptable for members of
the group to use a word but not those outside it, so care should be taken
when using them.

107
