

--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

Arnold Ciark

CYBER SECURITY POLICY

This document is the property of Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited and its subsidiaries (“Arnold Clark
Group”) and is for the use of Arnold Clark Group personnel only.

This document shall not affect the legal relationship or liability of the Arnold Clark Group with nor to any
third party and neither shall such third party be entitled to rely upon it.

The Arnold Clark Group shall have no liability for technical or editorial errors or omissions in this
document; nor for any damage, including but not limited to direct, punitive, incidental or consequential
damages resulting from or arising out of its use by the Arnold Clark Group’s directors, officers,
employees, agents, representatives, owners or others.

Document Classification: Internal
108


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

‘a
Arnold Clark C2 S2e5ity

 

Arnold Clark Group Cyber Security Policy

 

This policy document defines the cyber security requirements to ensure the application of
technologies, processes and controls to protect Arnold Clark’s systems, networks, programs, devices
and data from cyber attacks.

ACCOUNTABILITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Executive Sign Off Jim Graham - Group Finance Director

Sponsor MT McGhee - Arnold Clark Chief Implementation Officer
Owner Stephen McPhail - Arnold Clark Head of Cyber Security
Approver David Keenan - Arnold Clark Chief Technology Officer
Approver David Moffat — Arnold Clark Head of Reliability Engineering
Approver Iain Gibson — Arnold Clark Head of Digital Infrastructure
Approver Laura Logan — Arnold Clark Head of Digital Service Operations
Approver Zbigniew Kwecka —- Chief Information Security Officer
Reviewer Andy Prior — AoN Consultancy

Reviewer Stuart Thorpe / George Gilfillan

Review Period Biennially

Next Review 2025

 

DISTRIBUTION CONTROL

 

 

 

 

Method Arnold Clark Employees & External Parties with NDA
Contractors
Intranet No special requirements NA
Email Internal to Arnold Clark addresses Encrypt
only
Removable Media Encrypt Encrypt
Hardcopy Uncontrolled when printed Sealed Envelope

 

VERSION CONTROL

 

 

Version Date Author Description
0.1 Sep 2021 | Emma McAuslan and Paul Irons Draft
0.2 Sep 2021 | Paul Irons Feedback from NM Update of PCI-

DSS reference from 3.2 to 3.2.1,
removal of ISO reference A.6.1.2
0.3 Sep 2021 | Paul Irons Feedback from PB, update section
4 General Principles to include
integrity. Update section 4.4 to
replace precedent to precedence

1.0 Sep 2021 | Pat Malloy Approved Document

 

 

 

1.1 Nov 2023 | Natasha Muldoon Draft for update

 

a
Arnold Clark Cyber Security Policy v1.1 Version Date: Nov 2023
Classification: Internal

This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 2 of 9
109


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

fr”
Arnold Clark C3 svec'.y

 

 

2.0 Dec 2023 | Natasha Muldoon Approved Document

 

Table of Contents

1 INTRODUCTION 4
2 SCOPE 4
3 OBJECTIVES 4
4 GENERAL PRINCIPLES 4
4.1 Commitment to Cyber Security ....... ccc cece ceee eee eee ence enna eenaee nase tans enaees 5
4.2 RoleS And RESPONSIDIitieS ........ cece eee neers ene enna eae 6
4.3 Legal, Regulatory and Contractual COMPIIANCE ....... ccc eee cece seen eee eeeeeeaees 7
4.4 Business Continuity MANAGEMENL ...... cece teeter eee eee eden eee e eee 7
4.5 Review and MONItoring ........cccecceeee cece eect eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ea eae eee tates 7
5 ENFORCEMENT 8
6 CONTROL REFERENCES 9
7 RELATED DOCUMENTS 9

ee)
Arnold Clark Cyber Security Policy v1.1 Version Date: Nov 2023
Classification: Internal

This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 3 of 9
1106


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

ft”
Arnold Clark Cyber

Security

 

1 Introduction

The purpose of this policy is to demonstrate how we (a) protect Arnold Clark Group data and
infrastructure, (b) outline the protocols and guidelines that govern cyber security measures, (c) define
the rules for company and personal use, and (d) list the company's disciplinary process for policy
violations.

Arnold Clark’s information and relevant assets must be protected against both internal and external
threats. Security requirements must be established to ensure adequate protection of Arnold Clark
information. These requirements may be obtained (via) as a result of:

e Risk assessments
e Legal, regulatory, statutory and contractual requirements
e Principles and objectives as a result of business requirements for information processing

Maintaining the security of information (our data) is essential to ensure that Arnold Clark can maintain
profitability, legal compliance, competitive edge and reputation.

This Cyber Security Policy outlines the specific rules and guidelines needed to fulfil the cyber security
requirements.

2 Scope

This policy shall apply to all Arnold Clark Group employees, contractors, third-party organisations and
business partners working in support of the Arnold Clark Group. This policy document and all other
policies, standards and procedures underpin the Arnold Clark Group’s Cyber Security principles.

The Arnold Clark Cyber Security Policy must be implemented in conjunction with the Acceptable Use
Policy.

Any identified failure to comply with this policy or supporting standards must be reported to the Arnold
Clark Group’s Cyber Security department cybersecurity@arnoldclark.com

 

3 Objectives

The objective of the Cyber Security Policy is to:

e Manage cyber security risks to an acceptable level, as directed by the business owners.

e Support Arnold Clark strategy by facilitating efficient use of information in a safe and
responsible manner.

e Provide a framework for compliance with recognised cyber security standards and legal and
regulatory requirements.

4 General Principles

Arnold Clark Group acknowledges its responsibility to protect the confidentiality, integrity and
availability of information, through the application of adequate cyber security to all areas of the
business operations.

Arnold Clark Group also understands that the correct implementation and management of cyber
security within the organisation is essential for the protection of the wider Arnold Clark environment
and the services delivered to customers.

Arnold Clark employees, contractors and third-party organisations and business partner users will be
governed by this cyber security policy and supporting standards.

Arnold Clark Cyber Security Policy v1.1 Version Date: Nov 2023
Classification: Internal

This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 4 of 9

111


--- New Page 5 ---
Page number: 5
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

fr
Arnold Clark Seo erity

 

4.1 Commitment to Cyber Security

Arnold Clark Cyber Security team is led by the Head of Cyber Security reporting to the Chief
Information Security Officer (CISO). The Chief Information Security Officer is fully supported by the
Arnold Clark Board of Directors, who in turn advocate that all employees have a responsibility to protect
the company’s assets and information.

The cyber security requirements are aligned to the strategic objectives of Arnold Clark Group and the
risk management framework. Arnold Clark adopts a ‘Three Lines of Defence’ model to ensure that risks
and controls are properly managed by its businesses, functions and digital teams on an ongoing basis.

Diagram 1: Three Lines of Defence

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Internal Audit provides independent assurance over risk management,
governance and internal controls.

ale=laar-] AVC Lelie

 

 

Cyber Security Team design and own the Risk Management
Framework and associated policies and standards. Monitors
and facilitates the implementation of effective risk 2LOD
management practices across Arnold Clark.

OV ol-yei-lo Ul ei nvan (=t-]a0

 

 

Employees take ownership, responsibility and
accountability for directly assessing,
controlling and mitigating risks and issues. 1LOD

All Employees

The Arnold Clark Cyber Security team are responsible for leading the risk assessment with all relevant
stakeholders involved to identify, quantify and manage risks within their areas of responsibility whilst
achieving business objectives.

All risks identified must be captured in the Arnold Clark Digital Risk Register with an action plan in place
detailing how the risk will be managed in line with the risk rating, who will be responsible for ensuring
the mitigating controls are implemented and the date for completion. All risks are subject to continuous
review, aligned with our Risk Management Framework.

Risk assessments are performed periodically on a variety of assets within the organisation to address
changes in Arnold Clarks risk appetite or when significant changes occur. These assets may be physical
assets, people, processes, software and information to assess all aspects of risks, threats and
vulnerabilities.

The risks identified must be captured in the AC Digital Risk Register. Actions taken to mitigate the risks
must be captured and reported on a periodic basis.

The Arnold Clark Cyber Security team must lead the risk assessment and involve all business managers
to identify and manage risks within their areas of responsibility.

ee)
Arnold Clark Cyber Security Policy v1.1 Version Date: Nov 2023
Classification: Internal

This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 5 of 9
112


--- New Page 6 ---
Page number: 6
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

ft”
Arnold Clark Cyber

Security

 

4.1.1 Risk Assessment Methodology

Security risks must be assessed using the cyber risk management framework. The assessment must
include the potential business impact of the risk in terms of compromise of the information asset. The
assessment must also include the likelihood of the impact occurring. The two factors must contribute to
the overall risk score.

Based on the risk score, appropriate risk treatment methods must be deployed to reduce the impact of
the risk. The following risk treatment methods may be used:

e Transfer — this method involves transferring the risk to a third party to help reduce the impact
of the risk.

e Accept - it may be that the cost or impact of implementing a control to mitigate a given risk
exceeds the benefits the control has on the risk, in which case, the management may decide to
accept the risk as-is.

e Reduce - this method involves implementing controls to mitigate the risk, thereby reducing
both the impact and likelihood of exploitation.

e Avoid - this method involves avoiding / stopping the business process to eliminate the risk
from occurring.

4.2 Roles and Responsibilities

All Arnold Clark Group - employees, contractors and third party users must report security risks and
incidents to the Service Desk and / or to their line managers. The individual(s) responsible /
accountable for managing the risk may not be from the same business unit.

The Arnold Clark Cyber Security team will coordinate with the individual(s) providing assistance where
required.

Arnold Clark Cyber Security Policy v1.1 Version Date: Nov 2023
Classification: Internal

This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 6 of 9
113


--- New Page 7 ---
Page number: 7
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

ft”
Arnold Clark Cyber

Security

 

4.3 Legal, Regulatory and Contractual Compliance

The Arnold Clark Group is subject to various compliance streams that require cyber security to be
managed and complete cyber assurance on an annual basis. These include, but not limited to:

Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA)
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS)
Prudential Regulation Committee (PRC)
Association of British Insurers (ABI)
Cyber Essentials Plus v2.0

UK GDPR

PCI-DSS v4

In cases where the Arnold Clark Cyber Security Policy conflicts with laws or regulations; those laws or
regulations take precedence. In such cases the conflict must be documented and reported to the Arnold
Clark Cyber Security team. cybersecurity@arnoldclark.com

 

Arnold Clark is subject to various compliance streams that require security to be properly managed.

In cases where the Arnold Clark Cyber Security Policy conflicts with laws or regulations; those laws or
regulations take precedence. In such cases the conflict must be documented and reported to the Arnold
Clark Cyber Security team.

4.3.1 Payment Card Industry

Where Arnold Clark is engaged with payment card transactions for any number of direct or indirect
customers it is required to comply with the most recent version of the Payment Card Industry Data
Security Standard (PCIDSS).

Specific rules and requirements are detailed within the Arnold Clark Cyber Security Payment Card Data
Handling Standard.

4.4 Business Continuity Management

Arnold Clark Group must have in place a Business Continuity Plan to maintain essential operational
activities during adverse conditions, from coping with major disasters to minor local issues.

4.5 Review and Monitoring

The Cyber Security policy (and standards) is subject to continuous, systematic review and
improvement. The Cyber Security policies will be reviewed every two years unless an ad hoc
occurrence occurs.

The Arnold Clark Chief Information Security Officer is the owner of this document and is responsible for
ensuring that this policy document is reviewed at the defined intervals.

A controlled version of this document must be made available to all Arnold Clark Group employees,
contractors and third-party users.

Arnold Clark Cyber Security Policy v1.1 Version Date: Nov 2023
Classification: Internal

This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 7 of 9

114


--- New Page 8 ---
Page number: 8
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

ft”
Arnold Clark Cyber

Security

 

5 Enforcement

For the Arnold Clark Group to maintain its high standards and reputation all employees, contractors and
third parties are responsible for their own actions and ensuring they remain in compliance with the
requirements of all Cyber Security Policies and Standards. Breaches or suspected breaches of the
Arnold Clark Policies must be reported. Breaches of the Arnold Clark Policies may lead to disciplinary
sanctions up to and including dismissal.

Arnold Clark Group has a Whistleblowing Policy and will not tolerate any kind of retaliation against
anyone who, in good faith, reports a violation of Arnold Clark policy or law.

ee)
Arnold Clark Cyber Security Policy v1.1 Version Date: Nov 2023
Classification: Internal

This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 8 of 9
115


--- New Page 9 ---
Page number: 9
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

fr
Arnold Clark Seo erity

 

6 Control References

Standard Control(s)

PCI-DSS v4.0 PCI.12
NiST CSF ID.GV-1, ID.GV-2

 

 

7 Related Documents

Document Name

 

Arnold Clark Cyber Security | Arnold Clark Cyber Security Policy
Policies Arnold Clark Cyber Security Acceptable Usage Policy

 

Appendix

The Cyber Essentials scheme is a UK government-backed certification scheme that helps organizations of all sizes
protect themselves against common online threats. It provides a set of basic cybersecurity controls that
organizations can implement to reduce their risk of cyber attacks.

Under the UK GDPR, individuals have a number of rights with respect to their personal data, including the right to
be informed about how their data is being used, the right to access their data, the right to have their data corrected,
the right to have their data deleted, and the right to object to the processing of their data in certain circumstances.

Organizations that process personal data are required to comply with a number of principles, including the
principles of transparency, fairness, and accountability. They must also implement appropriate technical and
organizational measures to ensure the security of personal data and report data breaches to the appropriate
authorities.

The PCI-DSS is a set of security standards established by the major credit card companies to protect against credit
card fraud and data breaches. It applies to all organizations that process, store or transmit cardholder data. The
standard outlines a set of requirements for securing cardholder data and ensuring that it is processed and stored in
a secure manner.

The PCI Security Standards Council, which oversees the development and maintenance of the PCI-DSS, regularly
updates the standard to address new threats and vulnerabilities. However, the core principles and requirements of
the standard remain largely unchanged from version to version. It is important for organizations to stay up to date
with the latest version of the standard and implement any necessary changes to their security practices to ensure
compliance.

ee)
Arnold Clark Cyber Security Policy v1.1 Version Date: Nov 2023
Classification: Internal

This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 9 of 9
116


--- New Page 10 ---
Page number: 10
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

Arnold Clark

CYBER SECURITY

ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY

This document is the property of Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited and its subsidiaries (“Arnold Clark
Group”) and is for the use of Arnold Clark Group personnel only.

This document shall not affect the legal relationship or liability of the Arnold Clark Group with nor to
any third party and neither shall such third party be entitled to rely upon it.

The Arnold Clark Group shall have no liability for technical or editorial errors or omissions in this
document; nor for any damage, including but not limited to direct, punitive, incidental or
consequential damages resulting from or arising out of its use by the Arnold Clark Group’s directors,
officers, employees, agents, representatives, owners or others.

Document Classification: Internal

117


--- New Page 11 ---
Page number: 11
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

fr”
Arnold Clark a Cyber

Security

 

 

Arnold Clark Group Cyber Security

 

Acceptable Use Policy

This document details the mandatory baseline standards required to meet the Arnold Clark company
Cyber Security Policies.

ACCOUNTABILITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Executive Sign Off Jim Graham - Group Finance Director

Sponsor MT McGhee - Arnold Clark Chief Implementation Officer
Owner Stephen McPhail - Arnold Clark Head of Cyber Security
Approver David Keenan - Arnold Clark Chief Technology Officer
Approver David Moffat —- Arnold Clark Head of Reliability Engineering
Approver Iain Gibson —- Arnold Clark Head of Digital Infrastructure
Approver Laura Logan - Arnold Clark Head of Digital Service Operations
Approver Zbigniew Kwecka — Arnold Clark Chief Information Security Officer
Reviewer Andy Prior - Aon Consultancy

Reviewer Stuart Thorpe — Arnold Clark Company Secretary

Reviewer Biennially

Review Period 2023

Next Review 2025

 

DISTRIBUTION CONTROL

 

 

 

 

Method Arnold Clark Employees & > 4C-t eT AN
Contractors
Intranet No special requirements NA
Email Internal to Arnold Clark addresses Encrypt
only
Removable Media Encrypt Encrypt
Hardcopy Uncontrolled when printed Sealed Envelope

 

VERSION CONTROL

 

 

Version Date Author Description
0.1 Aug 2021 | Emma McAuslan and Paul Irons Draft
0.2 Sep 2021 | Paul Irons Feedback from PB: update scope to

include the last line starting with
‘Any detected breaches...’, update
section 4.1 from ‘Report security &
data breaches and incidents
immediately to the IT Support
Desk, management or Cyber

 

Arnold Clark Cyber Security Acceptable Use Policy v2.0 Version Date: Nov 2023

Classification: Internal
This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 2 of 10

118


--- New Page 12 ---
Page number: 12
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

fr”
Arnold Clark Cyber

Security

Security team’ to ‘Report security &
data breaches and incidents
immediately to the IT Service Desk
on 0141 648 1999 or management
team, or Cyber Security team if
you are unable to contact the IT
Service Desk.

1.0 Sep 2021 | Laura Logan Approved Document

 

 

 

 

1.1 Nov 2023 | Natasha Muldoon Review Draft - wording updated to
reflect changes — IT support Desk
changed to Digital Support Desk.
New data classifications added.
Not share account credentials
added.

1.2 Nov 2023 | Andy Prior Review Draft —- updated (1)
terminology e.g. “Company
Messaging Systems” so
encapsulates all company
messaging mediums like email,
SMS, Teams etc
(2) Expanded on what
“defamatory, offensive or harassing
language” section to expand with
copyright infringement.

 

 

2.0 Dec 2023 | Natasha Muldoon Approved Document

 

Arnold Clark Cyber Security Acceptable Use Policy v2.0 Version Date: Nov 2023

Classification: Internal
This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 3 of 10

119


--- New Page 13 ---
Page number: 13
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

fr”
Arnold Clark a Cyber

Security

 

Contents
1 INTRODUCTION 5
2 SCOPE 5
3 OBJECTIVES 5
4 GENERAL PRINCIPLES 5
4.1. Physical Security of Facilities, Devices and Information .............:ccceceeeeeeeeee eee eeeeee teense eaes 6
4.2 “Clear” Desk and Screen GUidance.........ccccece cece eee eee eee eerste eae ene eae 6
4.3 Internet USC oo. EEE EEE enn EEE 7
4.3.1 Unacceptable Use 7
4.4 Company Messaging SyStEMS USEC oo. nena 8
4.5 Social Media USC 22... cece eee ene eae ee ened 9
5 ENFORCEMENT 9
6 CONTROL REFERENCES 9
7 RELATED DOCUMENTS 9

Arnold Clark Cyber Security Acceptable Use Policy v2.0 Version Date: Nov 2023

Classification: Internal
This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 4 of 10

120


--- New Page 14 ---
Page number: 14
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

tf”
Arnold Clark Cyber

Security

 

1 Introduction

This policy defines the minimum-security requirements for acceptable use of information, data and
information systems within Arnold Clark. It applies to whatever device is used to process Arnold Clark
company data: whether a desktop, laptop, mobile phone, tablet, etc. and whether personally owned or
issued by Arnold Clark or a third party.

This policy aims to build a culture of trust and integrity by communicating acceptable behaviours in
Arnold Clark employees, contractors, third-party organisations and business partners working in
support of Arnold Clark who use Arnold Clark company information, data and information systems.

2 Scope

This policy applies to all Arnold Clark employees, contractors, third-party organisations and business
partners working in support of Arnold Clark.

This policy shall apply to all information, data and infrastructure that is either owned by or operated in
support of Arnold Clark.

Any identified failure to comply with this policy must be reported to the Arnold Clark Cyber Security
department cybersecurity@arnoldclark.com where it can be recorded, entered into a risk register, and a
formal risk assessment carried out. Any detected breaches of this policy are thoroughly investigated by
the relevant teams and are escalated to the appropriate management streams where necessary.

 

3 Objectives

This policy defines the acceptable usage requirements for cyber security to be implemented and
accepted to ensure ongoing commitments to preserving the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of
Arnold Clark company information and information processing systems. The key areas include the use
of Arnold Clark IT systems, the internet and email, as well as guidance on physical security and the
“clear” desk and screen requirements.

4 General Principles

Everyone with access to Arnold Clark company information or information processing systems must
actively accept responsibility for being aware of and abiding by Arnold Clark cyber security policies and
standards.

Requirements include:

e Only use Arnold Clark company approved electronic devices and information for the
intended business purposes.

e That personal media (e.g., Photos, Music, Videos) will not be transferred onto or used by
Arnold Clark IT equipment unless there is a genuine business requirement.

e Respect the rights, privacy, and property of Arnold Clark company and its employees,
customers, and suppliers.

e §=6Classifying all electronic data as either “Highly Confidential”, “Internal” or “External”.

e Using strong, unique passwords or pins, keeping them confidential, changing them annually
utilising them as detailed within the Arnold Clark Cyber Security User Access Management
Standard.

e Do not interfere with or attempt to circumvent any of the Arnold Clark company IT technical
controls. Examples of these controls include periodic scanning, monitoring framework or
essential software updates.

e Do not install any software or applications onto Arnold Clark company IT equipment that
would bypass or otherwise diminish security software or technical controls (this includes the
deliberate introduction of nefarious software designed to damage, self-replicate or hinder
the performance of the Arnold Clark company IT infrastructure).

e Do not share any Arnold Clark company login credentials or information with others.

e Comply with all applicable legal and regulatory standards (e.g., PCI-DSS, GDPR, Cyber
Essentials).

e For applications that are installed on personal devices such as authenticators, MS Teams or

Arnold Clark Cyber Security Acceptable Use Policy v2.0 Version Date: Nov 2023

Classification: Internal
This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 5 of 10

121


--- New Page 15 ---
Page number: 15
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

tf”
Arnold Clark Cyber

Security

 

M365 controls must be implemented to ensure that all Arnold Clark data processed or
viewed is containerised within these applications and not stored locally.

4.1 Physical Security of Facilities, Devices and Information

Individuals working on behalf of Arnold Clark must:

e Ensure Arnold Clark company devices and information in their possession are safeguarded,
especially in public places or during travel.

e Secure portable devices when not in use.

e Be aware of your surroundings:

o Care must be taken to ensure that conversations involving confidential and/ or personal
information cannot be overheard.

o Information must never be given out over the phone unless it is absolutely clear who it
is being given to and that they are entitled to the information and are ready and able to
accept it.

o When accessing systems or data be aware of people standing behind you that can see
information whilst looking over your shoulder.

o Voicemail messages containing personal information should only be left after due
consideration has been given to any security and confidentiality risks involved.

e Adhere to physical entry controls in the offices:

o Always use your security pass where required.

o Ensure that you are not followed by unauthorised persons when entering an Office.

o Be prepared to challenge others when following another into a secured office area.

e Manage visitors and third parties safely by ensuring they have dedicated workplaces and access to
business information only on a need-to-know basis.

e Return Arnold Clark devices to your line manager and information that are no longer required or
upon leaving employment. They remain the property of Arnold Clark.

e Report security & data breaches and incidents immediately to the Digital Support Desk on
0141 648 1999.

4.2 “Clear” Desk and Screen Guidance

Individuals working with Arnold Clark company information must:

e Secure sensitive media and documentation when not in use.

e Log-off or lock the screen when leaving a device unattended.

e =Only print “Highly Confidential” or “Internal” information if required and collect such documents
immediately from the printer/fax.

e Securely dispose of Highly Confidential or “Internal information when it is no longer needed.

e Printing from home should be avoided especially where information is classified as Highly
Confidential or Internal.

e If you do need to print from home, you must ensure this material is disposed of securely by visiting
your nearest branch or office and disposing in the confidential waste bins.

Arnold Clark Cyber Security Acceptable Use Policy v2.0 Version Date: Nov 2023

Classification: Internal
This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 6 of 10

122


--- New Page 16 ---
Page number: 16
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

tf”
Arnold Clark Cyber

Security

 

4.3 Internet Use

 

NOTE: Internet access from a corporate device is provided for business use. All traffic transmitted or
data stored within the Arnold Clark corporate network can be inspected for security purposes.

 

Everyone with access to the internet must:

e Understand that the internet use within the Arnold Clark company is continuously monitored.

e All company information assets are primarily for the purpose of company business.

e Limited personal use of the internet is provided and monitored by the company is allowed (such as
lunchtime or breaks

e Only use the internet legally and in accordance with the Arnold Clark values.

e Not upload any Arnold Clark company information externally to the internet, including to web-based
storage or cloud services (e.g., Google Drive), unless it is an Arnold Clark company-approved
service.

e Only company-approved software should be installed on company devices.

e You must only use removable media once approval from senior management is provided.

e Not represent or discuss the Arnold Clark company on Internet discussion groups or forums without
prior authorisation. For more information, see the Arnold Clark Social Media Policy.

e Only download or accept files from trusted sources.

e Not bring into disrepute the Arnold Clark brand, customers, employees or business partners.

e Only stream content from the internet for genuine training or business purposes.

4.3.1 Unacceptable Use

The following are deemed as unacceptable use, regardless of whether it is for business or personal
reasons:

e =Any activity that may adversely impact or damage the reputation of Arnold Clark.

e Unauthorised streaming or downloading of material which infringes any copyright, trademark,
patent, trade secret or other proprietary rights of a third-party. This includes unauthorised copying
of copyright material, digitisation and distribution of copyright photographs, software and illegal
sports streaming.

e Unauthorised downloading and installation of any unlicensed, unapproved or ‘hacked’ illegal
software such as but not limited to VPN software, Torrent clients, Gaming platforms or software,
Uplay, Steam.

e Unauthorised downloading of any TV streaming applications

e Copying of personal files and media onto an Arnold Clark company device.

e Using peer-to-peer software or services without senior management approval

e Knowingly accessing or sending:

o  ©Material likely to facilitate an illegal act.

o Information about, or software designed for, breaching technical security controls or
creating nefarious computer software applications.

o material that is obscene, sexually explicit, defamatory, incites or depicts violence, or
describes techniques for criminal or terrorist acts.

o Material that is illegal under domestic or international law.

e Compromising or circumventing company technical or physical security controls of that in Arnold
Clark or any other organisation.

e Knowingly circumventing any system that protects privacy or security.

e Accessing information or traffic not intended for you.

e = Any activities that intentionally adversely affect the ability of others to use Arnold Clark services.

e Deliberately propagating any nefarious software intended to cause disruption.

e Making any statement on your own behalf or behalf of Arnold Clark that may cause offence, libel, or
damage the reputation of others.

e Use third-party messaging systems such as but not limited to Messenger, Telegram, Signal, etc. on
Arnold Clark devices.

e Using an Arnold Clark user account ID or email address to subscribe or register for personal
newsletters, websites or internet forums.

Arnold Clark Cyber Security Acceptable Use Policy v2.0 Version Date: Nov 2023

Classification: Internal
This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 7 of 10

123


--- New Page 17 ---
Page number: 17
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

tf”
Arnold Clark Cyber

Security

 

If in doubt about whether an activity is considered unacceptable, then do not do it. If you
require advice, then please contact the Arnold Clark Cyber Security Team
cybersecurity@arnoldclark.com

4.4 Company Messaging Systems Use

Everyone with access to messaging systems such as email, phone, instant messaging, etc. must:

e Only use approved Arnold Clark company messaging systems for business use and understand that
usage may be subject to monitoring for audit and compliance purposes. This includes recording and
retaining telephone calls and instant messaging applications (e.g., Teams, Jabber, Slack, etc.)

e Understand that the content of messages may be legally and contractually binding and should be
given the same importance as written correspondence.

e Understand that messages are not secure unless additional measures are taken, such as sensitivity
labelling or encryption.

e Not use personal messaging accounts for Arnold Clark company-related business purposes.

e Not forward Arnold Clark data externally out of the company.

e Only open attachments or click on links in messages from senders that you trust are legitimate.

e Be aware of the risk of phishing and report any suspicious emails WhatsApp or Text messages or to

the Digital Support Desk or Spoof@arnoldclark.com.

e Not send bulk or unsolicited messages to other recipients.

Everyone with access to Arnold Clark company messaging systems must not:

e Use any electronic medium for personal financial gain, political purposes or personal advertising.

e Configure messages for automatic forwarding unless there is a justified business requirement.

e Use company messaging systems to store or transmit:

o defamatory, offensive or harassing language, fraudulent material, sexually explicit
images or language, material that infringes copyright or other intellectual property
rights of third parties, or offensive cartoons or jokes or otherwise involve lawful or
wrongful conduct. Nor should they contain any remarks that might be potentially
embarrassing to the Arnold Clark company, its employees or the general public.

o Chain letters, frivolous and joke emails. If a chain letter is received that requests a user
to forward it to other users, ignore it and delete the message.

o unsolicited messages (known as spam), hoaxes and nuisance emails. If such emails are
received, never open them, reply to them, or forward them to other users. Replying to
them is likely to lead to the receipt of further such emails.

«Send to spoof@arnoldclark.com or contact the Cyber Security team
cybersecurity @arnoldclark.com if in doubt.

e Knowingly access or transmit malicious software, e.g., viruses and spyware. (Spyware is software
that is installed and used in an unauthorised way to capture information, including keystrokes, bank
details, credit card details and passwords).

e Attempt to disable or circumvent Arnold Clark's technical controls.

e Circulate information received about computer viruses. In many cases, these messages are hoaxes.
If in any doubt about a received message, contact the Cyber Security Team
cybersecurity@arnoldclark.com for advice; otherwise, delete the message immediately.

e Attempt to either ‘spoof’ messages, transmit anonymous messages, or change the origin or content
of messages that have been sent or received on the Arnold Clark company IT messaging systems.

e Use the Arnold Clark company IT messaging systems to store and transmit any illegal or
unauthorised software, including games, music and screensavers.

 

 

Any content sent on the Arnold Clark company IT messaging systems is not private and is the property
of Arnold Clark. It should be noted that the Arnold Clark IT network and systems are subject to
monitoring, and inappropriate use of the Arnold Clark company IT messaging systems may result in
disciplinary action and the involvement of law enforcement.

Phishing
The identity of an email’s sender can be faked (known as spoofing), and the content of an email can be
changed in an unauthorised way between the email being sent and received.

Compromised Account

Arnold Clark Cyber Security Acceptable Use Policy v2.0 Version Date: Nov 2023

Classification: Internal
This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 8 of 10

124


--- New Page 18 ---
Page number: 18
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

fr”
Arnold Clark Cyber

Security

 

A compromised email account is when an email address has been accessed and used by a malicious
external user.

This email will ask you to access a link which will look to steal your credentials such as email addresses,
usernames, and passwords.

If you receive an email which you suspect is phishing or contains malicious content, this must be

forwarded to spoof@arnoldclark.com

If you have clicked on a suspicious link and have entered your credentials this must be reported to

spoof@arnoldclark.com immediately!
4.5 Social Media Use

All use of Web-based Email and Social Networking applications must be compliant with UK legislation. In
addition:

e Social networking applications, including but not limited to Twitter, Facebook and Instagram,
must only be used in line with the Arnold Clark social media policy unless explicitly permitted as
part of your roles within Arnold Clark. Any Arnold Clark company information, classified as “Highly
Confidential” or “Internal”, must never be communicated over this medium.

e Messaging interactions and the applications used to transmit any Arnold Clark company
information must be formally approved by the Heads of function or Director.

e Messaging communications which transmit Arnold Clark company information must be secured,
including but not limited to encrypting communications and managing file transfers in compliance
with Arnold Clark IT security guidelines.

5 Enforcement

For Arnold Clark to maintain its high standards and reputation, we each need to assume responsibility
for our actions and react if something is not done in accordance with our Arnold Clark Policies and other
business standards. Breaches or suspected breaches of the Arnold Clark Policies should be reported to
your line manager. If this is not appropriate in the circumstances, you should report the matter directly
to Cyber Security cybersecurity@arnoldclark.com. Breaches of the Arnold Clark Policies may lead to
disciplinary actions (up to and including dismissal) and the involvement of law enforcement.

The Arnold Clark “Whistleblowing” policy states it will not tolerate any retaliation against anyone who,
in good faith, reports a violation of the law or Arnold Clark company policy. The “Whistleblowing” policy
can be found on The People Team ACE Page under the “Employee Conduct” tab.

6 Control References

Standard Control(s)

DE.CM-7, ID.AM-1 ID.AM-2, PR.AC-2, PR.AT-1, PR.MA-1, PR.PT-2,
NIST RS.AN-3

CIS Control 2.3, 4.10, 14.2

 

 

7 Related Documents

Document Name

 

Arnold Clark Cyber Arnold Clark Cyber Security Policy
Security Policies

 

Arnold Clark Cyber Security Acceptable Use Policy v2.0 Version Date: Nov 2023

Classification: Internal
This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 9 of 10

125


--- New Page 19 ---
Page number: 19
Title of ebook of origin: 12.arnold_clark_cyber_security_policy.pdf

fr”
Arnold Clark Cyber

Security

 

 

Arnold Clark Cyber
Security Standards Arnold Clark Cyber Security User Access Management Standard
Arnold Clark Cyber Security Information Classification and Handling Standard

 

Internal Resources

(only accessible Arnold Clark Human Resources Policy
from within Arnold Arnold Clark Social Media Policy
Clark)

 

Arnold Clark Cyber Security Acceptable Use Policy v2.0 Version Date: Nov 2023

Classification: Internal
This Document is uncontrolled when printed. Page 10 of 10

126
