

--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 14.letter_about_pension_plan.pdf

 

Airrmoiel Clerk

Private and Confidential

Mory-Marcel Sangare

60 Glentye Drive

Tullibody

ALLOA

FK10 2UR 3959231102\451999

00A2100YD00001

Lea .. a
aCe

Dear Mory-Marcel
ARNOLD CLARK PENSION PLAN

We're pleased to confirm that you were enrolled into your company pension
plan on 27 April 2023.

The Government requires all employers to enrol their employees into a
pension to encourage them to save towards their future.

Legal & General is the company selected by your employer to provide your
~~ plar-and-to make-sure-you have all the-help-and information you need every” ~~

step of the way.

For more information on how we use your data please read the Legal &
General Privacy Policy at legalandgeneral.com/privacy-policy. For
information on how the Mastertrust Trustees use your data (in their capacity
as a separate data controller) please read their Privacy Policy at
legalandgeneral.com/mastertrust-privacy-policy. Please give us a call if
you would like to request paper copies of these policies.

What being in the plan means for you

- Joining the plan means you're saving towards your future. Your employer will
be making monthly contributions to your pension pot on your behalf.

If your employer is paying your contributions by salary sacrifice, then you're
giving up part of your salary in return for a regular contribution from your
employer. This means your contribution is taken from your pay before tax, so
you benefit from tax relief straight away, and you save on National Insurance
too. Any contribution made, including your own, paid by salary sacrifice, is
counted as an employer contribution and will be included in the figure below.

Percentage of your pensionable
earnings

Money going in

Your employer's contribution 9%

ou may have agreed an alternative amount with your employer. They'll tell
you how they work out your pensionable earnings.

You can find out more about how this works at legalandgeneral.com/
arnoldelark.

Legal&
General.

24 April 2023

Full name:
Mory-Marce] Sangare
Retirement age:

65 years

Enrolment Code:
kt9d3db4

- ~-Yourreference:— = ————

5058374611

Contact us:

formation on ti

features enenits o1

company pension plan

please visit

legqalandgeneral.comi

 

OU!

128
