

--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 16.communication_between_hr_and_claire.pdf

From: Emma Glass

Sent: Tuesday, June 13, 2023 5:04 PM

To: Laura Cooper <Laura.Cooper@arnoldclark.com>

Cc: Geraldine Bjonness <Geraldine.Bjonness@arnoldclark.com>; Charlotte Hutchieson
<Charlotte.Hutchieson@arnoldclark.com>

Subject: FW: Statement

 

 

 

Hi Laura

Can you pick up an U23month for 75078 Mory-Marcel Sangare, | have spoken to David Middleton re this case and
Claire has sent over a statement of the issues that they have experienced. Can you review the statement which ill
pass over a printed copy of as the link wont send and arrange meeting?

Thanks
Emma

Emma Glass
Senior People Operations Manager
Arnold Clark Automobiles Ltd

Tel: 0141 6481390
Mobile: 07785993043

Cx i disabil ————a
Think | vay “@ a
Employee © confident aio rr

 

At Arnold Clark we work flexibly. I’m sending this message now because it suits my working hours. However, |
don’t expect that you will read, respond to, or action this message outside of your usual working hours.

From: Claire Thomson <Claire. Thomson@arnoldclark.com>

Sent: Monday, June 12, 2023 3:01 PM

To: Emma Glass <Emma.Glass@arnoldclark.com>

Cc: David Middleton <David.Middleton@arnoldclark.com>; David Middleton <David.Middleton@arnoldclark.com>
Subject: Statement

 

 

 

 

137


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 16.communication_between_hr_and_claire.pdf

01230612_statement.docx

Hi Emma,

David Middleton requested that | send this over to you.
Please let me know if you require anything further

Thanks
Claire Thomson

138


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 16.communication_between_hr_and_claire.pdf

Marcel was hired as a replacement headcount for an experienced engineer in the team. The
roles and responsibilities of the role he applied for made clear he would “Utilize
infrastructure-as-code to deliver automated, predictable and scalable solutions,
infrastructure and services” and “Evangelise automated, fault-tolerant and secure
developments and practices”. Of the work Marcel has produced to date we don’t believe he
has the competencies to complete these two responsibilities in particular.

Marcel continues to struggle with distributed version control systems. The team has
provided multiple repeated explanations in 1-2-1 sessions and in written Teams chats on
how these systems should be used to enable the team to collaborate. Our using of version
control systems is the standard industry way of working namely to work in a feature branch
and commit small changes continually. It is critical for everyone in the team to work in the
same way especially when we the team works in a hybrid of office and home working. After
multiple reminders most days Marcel is still not able to follow this process and rather sends
screenshots and emails which slows down and distracts the Team Lead and the other
members of the team.

As explained at interview the focus of the ArchOps team where Marcel applied and
currently sits is to support the delivery of our strategic objective to move our software
deployment infrastructure architecture to that known as “Infrastructure as Code”. The tools
we use to deliver this are Terraform and Ansible. Both tools are industry standard tools for
this work and Marcel stated on his cv and at interview that he had experience with. Marcels
performance to date indicates that his competencies with these tools are at best limited and
not up to the requirements for the role he was hired to undertake. Tasks which take other
members of the team days to complete are taking Marcel weeks which is well below the
performance level expected of someone with his stated experience. Of particular concern is
Marcel’s inability to not use raw scripts but create reusable modules to complete work. This
is a fundamental principal of the strategy we as a department are looking to follow and is
having a significant negative impact on the team’s ability to operate and the work that
Marcel is producing.

Given the above we believe there isn’t a role for Marcel in the department given the natural
way Marcel likes to work and his level of exposure to the tools we use. Marcel was brought
in as an experienced senior engineer and as such we would expect him to take autonomous
ownership of some of the tasks of the team. Given our time with Marcel to date we don’t
believe that is going to be possible.

Current Task - Identify all AWS resources and add to source control.
The task originally was to identify all AWS resources and add them to our source control
system. Marcel was instructed to work from a branch in a designated repo, look at our

existing structure, create a new AWS folder and add the code to it.

The first concern in this task arose when Marcels first attempt at lead him to try and script
the creation of the terraform.

139


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 16.communication_between_hr_and_claire.pdf

Terraform is a tool to create Infrastructure as Code. The end goal of this task — all our tasks,
is to use the tools to automate the creation of the infrastructure.

Marcel was course corrected to make sure he understood that his thinking was incorrect, he
reasoned that if someone was to spin up new resources we could run the script to capture it
in terraform — | corrected that by reinforcing that no one should be clicking the buttons to
create the resources manually — that they will be created in the code, approved and ran via
a pipeline.

Realising that the task needed to be more focused it was then broken down further to focus
solely on VPCs (Virtual Private Cloud)

Marcel tried to create the VPCs but created each part of them individually, reasoning that it
would allow us to manage each bit separately. | had to correct his course again — | explained
that a VPC consisted of multiple parts that were linked and should exist and be managed
within the same file — as we could not possibly recreate a VPC without destroying all the
resources that existed within this. | highlighted this by showing Marcel the Resource Map
that exists in AWS.

Marcel has had ample time to review our repos and look at the AWS interface and with his
experience realise how infrastructure has dependencies on each other.

Macel had another attempt to restructure his work and then paired with his colleague Zoe
to review it. Zoe highlighted issues with the structure, the version being used and how the
state file worked (that we did not want them individual)
Following that Marcel then called me, questioning what Zoe had said. | reiterated that she
was correct — and this is what t had previously explained that we wanted a single VPC folder
with them all in it.

Having explained on calls and in the chat the folder structure that was expected, what parts
of the code had to go where, screen sharing and dragging and dropping files as an example
to show this had now turned in to a drag and drop exercise to refactor what was there, | was
still met with having to go over it yet again on our catchup — that the settings were to
remain in the file and not in the variables file.

Marcel did say that he’d misinterpreted a previous comment in the chat (19 folder
structure) but it had been followed with the example on the call, and the comments in the
chat on the (23)

Throughout this as previously mentioned, I’ve had to remind him to push changes to github,
not to send screen shots when asking me to assist, these are just the reminders in chat,
others were issued verbally.

Commits were infrequent and often one or two lines or words were changed in a period of a

few days — this work rate is below what | would expect, even from a graduate or
apprentice.

140


--- New Page 5 ---
Page number: 5
Title of ebook of origin: 16.communication_between_hr_and_claire.pdf

If | had given this task to anyone else on the team it would have been completed within a
few weeks.

This is in addition to a previous attempt at a task which had similar course corrections and
misunderstanding of the tool and how it should be used (ansible), that while it can runa
bash script — that we should use the collections and roles designed for it and only use
custom scripts where absolutely necessary.

| feel that at this point I’d have no confidence that Marcel could perform a task that came in
on our BAU board without a lot of support and guidance.

141
