

--- Start of 17.letter_from_hr_on_14th_of_june_2023.txt ---



--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 17.letter_from_hr_on_14th_of_june_2023.pdf

rnold Ciark 0
Giasyow | G52-4FH

QS Teter saa rss0

@  Fecow eo 260s

PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL
Mory-Marcel Sangare
E-moiled

14" June 2023 REF: 75078

Dear Mory-Marcel,

! would like to invite you to a meeting to discuss your continued employment with Arnold Clark. | feel
that it is necessary to discuss concerns with your overall capability within your role as DevOps Engineer
specifically, in retation to your failure to perform tasks in a timely manner, to utilise our systems
efficiently and to perform the tasks expected in your role to the standards expected

The meeting will take place on Tuesday 20™ June 2023 at 2.00pm at Hillington Head Office

Present at the meeting will be myself, Laura Cooper (People Advisor) and David Middleton {Head of
Digital Talent Development) will be present for management representation.

{ must make you aware that should you fail to attend this meeting,

it will proceed, and a decision will
be taken in your absence.

Legally, | have to make you aware that a possible outcome is the termination of your employment

therefore may | remind you that you are entitled to be accompanied by a work colleague or any

accredited trade union representative of your choice. Please contact me if

you require any assistance
in making arrangements.

Yours sincerely

[eet Ot _

Laura Cooper

  

People Advisor
RHUL Unica ookEss, RUN, COON,
CB) ~~ a oe)
u t oO
Amoi Cark Avtorr bles tim ted | Repstered Stfice 454 HW Inmton Road Gias jow G

52 4FH | Reg stered in Sectiand No 16386
Acthonsnd and regu ated ty the F.nanc al Conduct Author ty

142

--- End of 17.letter_from_hr_on_14th_of_june_2023.txt ---


--- Start of 18.email_to_laura_to_check_letter_is_genuine.txt ---



--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 18.email_to_laura_to_check_letter_is_genuine.pdf

a P

Laura Cooper

From: Marcel Sangere

Sent 14 June 2023 1738

To: Laura Cooper

Subject: Emad received from you - confirmation requested
Attachments: invite Letter _protected_pdf em!

HI Laura

| got the email below from you on my personal email this afternoon.

To be frank, the title of it and style look pretty unusual so | wanted to confirm that this was indeed sent by you.

Please do Jet me know.
Regards

Marcel

~—— Forwarded Message —-——

From: Laura Cooper <Laura.Cooper@amoiddark.com>
Date: On Wednesday, June 14th, 2023 at 5:17 PM

Subject: Invite letter
To: 'MARCEL.SANGARE@PROTONMAIL.COM' <MARCEL SANGARE@PROTONMAIL COM>

Hello

Please see invite letter attached — password is your employee ID
Any issues with accessing please let me know

Kind regards

Laura

Laura Cooper
People Advisor
Arnold Clark Automobiles Ltd

Tel: 0141 648 1390

143

--- End of 18.email_to_laura_to_check_letter_is_genuine.txt ---


--- Start of 19.email_from_me_to_management_and_hr.txt ---



--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 19.email_from_me_to_management_and_hr.pdf

 

SS a a ee ae a — om — eee

Laura Cooper

From Marcel Sangare

Sent: 79 June 2023 14358

To: Laura Cooper, David Middleton

Cc David Moffat, Gaire Thomson ~

Subject important Communication Prior to the meeting tomorrow with HR
Attachments: AWS Solution Certification pdf, old_passwords_transfer_pdf: vsftp.yamk pushing

saipt for sitp users setup with passwords by mmshill - Pull Request #1 -
amolddiark_vsitp_bulk_users_creabon pdf; users_with_ssh_keys,
users_hashed_passwords

Good Afternoon.

| would like to firstly introduce myself. My name is Mory-Marcel Sangare, and | work as a DevOps engineer. My
direct manager is Claire Thomson and the head of our department is Mr David Moffat.

| would like to also tell you who are the persons in copy of this email and they are:

Mr. David Moffat, who is the head of my department

Mrs. Claire Thomson, who is my direct manager

Mrs. Laura Cooper from the Human Resources department
Mr. David Middleton from the Human Resources department.

With your permissions, | would like to express myself in writing regarding the letter | received from Mrs Laura
Cooper by email on Wednesday, June 14th at 5:17 PM, which | only became aware of in the afternoon of
Thursday, June 15th, 2023.

This fetter i must say came as a shock to me because nothing was preparing me for this. It is to summarize
informing me that i am failing at my current role and is emphasizing the fact that my contract might get
terminated tomorrow.So you will understand therefore my surprise and the reason of the following paragraphs.

The letter is emphasizing the fact that my understanding of our systems and of my job is not right and that we
will tomorrow be discussing the continuation of my employment at Amold Clark.

Please allow me to say that absolutely nothing was preparing me for this because at no time since i started was
i briefed by my direct manager of problems with the quality of the work i have been producing to date.

Since i joined, i worked mostly on 2 tasks:

- rebuilding an sftp server used by extemal partners of Amold Clark.The ftp server in question is used to
exchange important information back and forth and was meant for rebuilding because it was running an
operating system that is now ageing and also in light of our move towards the ubuntu operating system for all
our servers

- writing the terraform configuration for all the assets our company Amold Clark has on the AWS Cloud and the
initial task was to write these configurations for all our Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) in all regions worldwide.

Now i am forced to give you some more details below so that you can understand the later part of this email and
my message will be broken in parts:

1/ My first task: rebuilding an sftp server used by internal and extemal partners of Arnodl Clark

2/ Writing the terraform configuration for all the assets of Arnold Clark on AWS Cloud.
3/ The interaction to date with my drect manager

145


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 19.email_from_me_to_management_and_hr.pdf

SS Se rx 7 ee nn ee

4f My first task: rebuilding an sftp server used by internal and external parners of Amold Clark

So regarding the first task, the aim was to rebuild the server with the ubuntu operating system and thereafter
cteate the accoumts for the extemal and intemal users.Among these users, some were using passwords to
authenticate and some others would resort to ssh keys for authentication. So in fight of that i wrote 2 scripts
perfectly functional in January 2023 that can be found below for these of you with access to the company
github.For those without, i attached to the present email a pdf print of the program source code (related attached
file: pushing script for sftp users setup with passwords) so that it could be reviewed if necessary by any other
party:

 
       

SOCOM ee Oe

The request for this to be merged into our main repository for use was done on the 22 of February 2023.

So as i was made aware that generating ssh keys was proving difficult for some users (they did not want to do it
or did not know how to do it) and in light of the fact that the company had just suffered a serious cyberattack, i
went this route first of all to make life easier for our extemal users in the sense that they would not need to worry
about the password anymore.It would get generated securely for them using the exact same method used by
Amazon on its public cloud AWS.So each user would get two keys that are necessary for authentication.One is
never communicated but stored securely on the server and it is then used to validate cryptographically the one
our user would use on their end.Also the system was able to create automatically securely and automatically
any number of users be it 10 (ten) or 10,000 (ten Thousands).

The plan was to deploy that bash script using our intema! Ansible.Now this is where the first issues started.Mr
Jason White in my team gave me a call with my Manager Claire thomson in which he asserted and wrongly so
that deploying a bash script with ansible on a linux server "was not real ansible” (i am quoting him here) and that
the best approach was to use yam! files that have the advantage of getting converted into python by ansible
before deployment onto the linux server.However, the reality is that no matter what one is using (bash script,
yam! file...), Ansible will first of ali convert the instructions in Python before sending them to the server and this
can be verified from the official documentation.Also during the meeting, as is custom with him, he was extremely
violent and rude to the point where Claire who is in charge could not place a single word.

He even added on that call that "the method used by this program is identical to what Amazon is doing ;
however as Amazon does not know what they are doing, that woulkd render my efforts useless".| will leave to
each of you the care of judging the extent of that statement and draw whatever logical conclusions can be
drawn from that.

| came out very shaken and upset from this call and had another one right afterwards with my Manager Claire ,
call during which j insisted on the the falsehood of the allegations of my colleague but also of the fact that if,
based on his personal preferences, we cannot make use of a bash script, why then do Amold Clark devops
employees use the bash language on a daily basis in the administration of the linux servers estate ?

But as Claire insisted we go the route of the ansible yaml file, i did it and then went on to write an ansible
deployment file that i will also attach to the present email (vsftp.yaml) for those of you keen on having a
{ook.That script also was fully functional and i was requested by my Manager Claire to review it together with Mr
Jason White.And as is customary with him, he not only removed everything i did put into that file and told me
that instead of rebuilding the server from scratch with that script, he would rather want me to rebuilt it and this is
where it is interesting by copying the passwords from the old server to the new one.

In light of the cyberattack our company suffered in December and in the name of the basic principles of digital
security hygiene, it is not right to copy the passwords from an old server when rebuilding a server in a company
setting and even more so right after a horrible cyberattack. Instead, a dutiful devops engineer should use a
secure method to reset all of the passwords on the new server and this is what i had in mind as a matter of
dutiful care towards the interest of my employer.

Another question beyond the fact that i hold an MBA in Cybersecurity and many other qualifications in Devops is
to know if that nonetheless qualify me for such an approach that had the highest interest fo the company in mind

2

ao

146


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 19.email_from_me_to_management_and_hr.pdf

—— i waka RE a Py

? I would say yes because beyond the content of my cy, i also graduated in 2020 from Harvard University in
‘Cybersecurity with the highest score ever ebtained which is ane of 100% . | was in the Class of Mrs Debora
Plunkett who was a former director of fhe NSAAs part fo her class, i was involved into the remediation of the
attack suffered by the Los Angeles Airport and was praised many times for my unusual yet deep knowledge of
cyber threat mifigation and this is what that script . violenfly rejected by Mr White was about Rest ensured that i
do not like making gratuitous allegations and will bring tamorrow with me the evidence regarding my Harvard
quaiificaticn in the area.

But the story does not end there ; despite the violence with which i was treated and in spite of the fact that
copying over old passwords to new Servers in an environment which had suffered a recent attack was clearly

wrong and not in the best interest of the company in my modest opinion, i nonetheless accepted the ventict and
went ahead to implement the solution of Mr White.

So i went ahead and implemented the solution Mm question and the whole thing was put in our github repository
and available at the following URL:

 

The password transfer from our servers to the repository above was done in an automated fashion with two
scripts (files users_hashed_passwords and users_with_ssh_keys also attached to the present email) present

since the 29th of March 2023 on both sftp intemal (10.31 2.120) and sftp extemal (10.150.153.17) and which i
also attach to this email for review.

So from the repository above i took a screenshot (also attached to this email as file old |_passwords_itransfer)
where you can see 4 lines that are in red .These lines are the ones that were put into the file by Mr Jason White
and i left them there, on purpose, so that during the review he could have his code proposal right next to mine
for comparison purpose .These fines are the only reason why a tiny portion one of the test did fail but otherwise
this script is also perfectly functional and written in a fashion more than acceptable in the ansible worid.When i
got back to him afterwards for review, he told me that we would do it later as there was no rush back then. So i
left it in state until my Manager Claire, moved the task to someone else.However that repository is again a proof
that the job, no matter how disturbed i was by it in terms of the company interest, was done successfully.

| will now move on to the second part of my email which is to deal with the task of “terraforming” our AWS cloud
assets.

2/ Writing the terraform configuration for all the assets of Arnold Clark on AWS Cloud.

My first task here was to put into terraform the configuration of the VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) our company has
on AWS Cloud.

So my first approach was to write these configurations from scratch (so not making use of the "terraform import"
command) and | first of al! wrote these configuration with the latest version of terraform : So my plan was to use

the awscli to query the attributes of the vpc from AWs and then use these attributes to write their terraform
configurations.| took that route because:

-It gives you a better understanding of how the VPC works. When you write the configuration from scratch,
you have to understand the different components of a VPC and how they interact with each other. This
understanding will help you troubleshoot problems and make changes to the VPC as needed.

-It allows you to customize the VPC to your specific needs. When you use a pre-made module, you are
limited to the features that are included in the module. If you need to customize the VPC, you will need to modify
the module, which can be difficult and time-consuming.

-It makes it easier to manage the VPC. When you have a custom Terraform configuration, you can use
Terraform to manage the entire VPC, including creating, updating, and destroying resources. This makes it
easier to keep track of changes to the VPC and to ensure that the VPC is always in a consistent state.

147


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 19.email_from_me_to_management_and_hr.pdf

a a scenery ee

Of course, there are also some disadvantages to writing the Terraform configuration from scratch and Claire
i ly pointed them out to me hence the fact i started using the “teraform import” commands for the task.

Now as an AWS Solutions Architect (i also attach to this email a copy of my certificate number
SNXAZSJSHMQXZ finally validated on the 6th of May 2023) and thanks to the numerous training i took in my
previous job from a company called Acioudgumy, i wrote the configuration for the 22 VPC by organizing each
Configuration in a separate folder/project. And the proof cf it is available from the following link

 

So as you can see, we have 22 folders for 22 vpc and the terraform code for every single of these vpcs is 100%
functional.On top of this there is an accounting script able to tell us how many vpc we have in each region.

AWS recommends this approach for the following reasons:

-Organization: !t will help to keep your code organized and easy to manage. You can create a folder for each
VPC and then put all of the Terraform configuration for that VPC in the folder. This will make it easy to find the
configuration for a specific VPC and to understand how the VPC is configured.

-Tracability: It will make it easier to track changes to each VPC. lf you make a change to the configuration for
a VPC, you can easily see the change in the code. This will help you to troubleshoot problems and to
understand how the changes affect the VPC.

-Deployment: It will make it easier to deploy changes to individual VPCs. If you need to deploy a change toa
specific VPC, you can simply deploy the changes to the folder for that VPC. This will prevent you from
accidentally deploying changes to other VPCs.

If anyone wants to verify, they will need to clone the repository above, get into any vpc which name starts with

“vpc” and then run in it the commands “terraform init", then the content of the import commands file and finally
the command “terraform plan".All of them do work.

But when i completed that task, my manager advised that i rather follow the same pattern as the one on our
Azure Cloud repository. recall having said that these 2 clouds are overall differents and that rewriting the code
destined for separate project into one single file was no simple task because of the sheer number of
adjustments to make it work and this is where i spent some time since merging all the configuration under a
single project and get it to work perfectly was not an easy task ; becasue we are talkking about getting 22
separate files with more than a thousand lines of code to get merged into a single project.So last week, on
thursday during a meeting with Claire, i did present a little breakthrough in terms of merging all the
configurations into a single file.| made a demonstration for the proof of concept during 2 session with my
manager who then did seem satisfied with the fact we are now approaching the end of that road.She even
Suggested to me what the next step would be once i would be done.

3/ The interaction to date with my direct manager

So taken into account the fact i never got direct complaints or warning from my manager and taken into account
the discussion last week on the same day i received the letter, you Can now imagine and understand the extent

of my surprise and shock and i must say that i have been totally under since thursday as this is creating some
very mixed feelings as you can imagine.

The only thing | can remember that might have triggered this was at the end of the discussion last week when
she asked me if i had asked the help of Mr White for the then ongoing merging process.| responded that i hadn't
for 3 reasons: first i generally talk to Miss Zoe whenever necessary as she is very capable in that area; secondly
it is my belief that i was on the right track which she confirmed last week by herself. And Thirdly, i must say that i
am notin general too fond of getting anywhere near Mr White as he is most likely the most verbally abusive,

brutal, loud and disrecpectful person i ever came across and i once complained about him and his absolutely
terrible manners to my direct manager.

148


--- New Page 5 ---
Page number: 5
Title of ebook of origin: 19.email_from_me_to_management_and_hr.pdf

SE TT gS

Between his never ending rather vulgar insults, during teams mesfings , about the other teams who are are
always systematically qualified after the use of, you will excuse me, the "F" word, his total lack of respect for
everyone including our manager wham he would systematically interrupt during team meetings to my disbelief to
this day, the fact that ke once allowed himself to shush her in front of everyone , his systematic attempts to
belittle me in particular and Some of his comments about my direct manager during one of our meesngs, i

So from the meeting of last week, this is the only thing i could remember that could have triggered this and i

hope i am totally wrong but before that i did not get any warming about what appears to be my lack of
qualifications and abilities.

So i provided you above with verifiable evidence that i am not fost in terms of the use of the systems of our
company and contrary to the perception, i have managed to accomplish the task required of me unt now. The
onty recent difficulty as i mentioned being that it took a lot of efforts to try merging into a single file some
complex and long configurations that were initially designed to be modular in terns with what Amazon is
preaching about its service and you have my AWS certificate and the github repository to attest to this.

Also and i would like to emphasize that, i have never had any problems i can remember of with my manager Mrs
Thomson whom i appreciate both as a manager and a person of very good character.

But without any prior waming, mentioning the Possibility of ending my contract tomorrow came as a total shock

from which ij have not recovered to be honest and i would like the evidence i provided above to be assessed
with impartiality.

Also finally, with my constant effort to be not onty mindful but respectful of the interest of the company, my
attempt to apply the generally admitted rules for the task required of me, the fact that the goals set for me were
not a failure and my real respect for my manager from whom i never received a waming for my work, i think it is
extremely unfair for me to be in this situation now.Also we have, and i have detailed it above some characters in
the team with an attitude that would guarantee in other settings, an immediate dismissal for gross misconduct;

but these characters are instead left in peace when they terrorize everyone around them with open brutality and
verbal abuse and this is not right to me.

i have been in a state of distress since last thursday to be honest to the point where i had an accident without
consequences this weekend and ended up speaking to my neigbour and friend who is a lwayer at a well
established firm in Edinburgh Without of course sharing any of the links and materials in this email but by simply
giving him some verbal explanations which he got because he also happen to have a technical background, he
gave me some advice that are , to be honest , contrary to what i want in terms of relations with a company i
sincerely like and care for.But i am really really disappointed and in total disbelief with what is taking place and i
would really like fo humbly ask for real faimess during our meeting tomorrow because at the moment, all of this
makes me feel really bad and this is clearly not right at all in my opinion.

Despite all i am going through at the moment, rest ensured that i will be attending the meeting tomorrow and
truly hope that an independant and fair assessment of the elements i provided will be done to avoid what is
clearly not right in my modest opinion.My line managers (both Ciaire and David) know me to be a person of
good character and i do intend to maintain that attitude during the meeting tomorrow.Also i really want to
emphasize that my upbringing and values will guarantee you the preservation of my reputation of good
character so please rest ensured that i am not coming tomorrow in a confrotational mood.! am just coming to
you in the hope you would have assessed fairly the elements provided above.

| believe in your faimess and hope the Human resources will help in the accomplishment of this tomorrow.

Yours faithfully,

Mory-Marcel Sangare

149

--- End of 19.email_from_me_to_management_and_hr.txt ---
