Continued Employment Meeting with Mory-Marcel Sangare
Date:
Location:
Present:

22 tune 2023
Head Office
Mory-Marcel Sangare- Employee {Mt5)
Laura Cooper - People Advisor[}
David Middleton - Management Representati on {DM)

LC- We just terminated the meeting just due to time constraints.

MS--l understand.
LC- So we've obviously kind of started back up and just before we start l just want to check your happy on
your own today, you do have the right to be accompanied?

MS-Its fine.
LC - Your fine on your own tday. Right so we obviously went through a few points on Tuesday and we've
still got a few points to go through.
MS- Yeah
LC- So lwanted to start because I know I said on Tuesday that I would start by going through my points and
then l'd go to your email and we'd kind of talk through that so that's how l'm going to start today by referring
to your email so I know you sent me this on Monday...

MS- Yeah.
LC - Which I did have a look at and I've spoken through with David as well. So ! know from speaking with
David in terms of the point 1 that you've put through, the first task, that's not something that you know
we've got a concern with that we're discussing however you did kind of raise concerns in this point in relation
to Jason White and I just kind of wanted to discuss that with yourself just your experience with Jason.

MS - Erm before we get into that point...
LC - Uh huh.
MS -As I said I have...and I mentioned that in my email yesterday, I had a rather difficult weekend so when I
got in here on Tuesday I wanted to be on my best form.
LC- Ok.
MS-But if you would please erm I just don't want to mess up the timetable we've set but I just want to cover
as it is being recorded.
LC - Uh huh.
MS- I just want to cover 4 important points.
LC-Ok.
MS --I think are relevant to both the last session and this one in the conclusion (01.2g)
Page 1 of23-FM
C - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCE SANGARE - 22.06 23

220

Continued Employment Meeting with Mory-Marcel Sangare
Date:
Location:
Present:

22 tune 2023
Head Office
Mory-Marcel Sangare- Employee {Mt5)
Laura Cooper - People Advisor[}
David Middleton - Management Representati on {DM)

LC- We just terminated the meeting just due to time constraints.

MS--l understand.
LC- So we've obviously kind of started back up and just before we start l just want to check your happy on
your own today, you do have the right to be accompanied?

MS-Its fine.
LC - Your fine on your own tday. Right so we obviously went through a few points on Tuesday and we've
still got a few points to go through.
MS- Yeah
LC- So lwanted to start because I know I said on Tuesday that I would start by going through my points and
then l'd go to your email and we'd kind of talk through that so that's how l'm going to start today by referring
to your email so I know you sent me this on Monday...

MS- Yeah.
LC - Which I did have a look at and I've spoken through with David as well. So ! know from speaking with
David in terms of the point 1 that you've put through, the first task, that's not something that you know
we've got a concern with that we're discussing however you did kind of raise concerns in this point in relation
to Jason White and I just kind of wanted to discuss that with yourself just your experience with Jason.

MS - Erm before we get into that point...
LC - Uh huh.
MS -As I said I have...and I mentioned that in my email yesterday, I had a rather difficult weekend so when I
got in here on Tuesday I wanted to be on my best form.
LC- Ok.
MS-But if you would please erm I just don't want to mess up the timetable we've set but I just want to cover
as it is being recorded.
LC - Uh huh.
MS- I just want to cover 4 important points.
LC-Ok.
MS --I think are relevant to both the last session and this one in the conclusion (01.2g)
Page 1 of23-FM
C - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCE SANGARE - 22.06 23

221

M5-- Just give me one send.

(- No its ok takeyour time.
M5-So the first point that I wanted to raise because after the discussion we had here._
C-Uh huh.
MS-fern l don't know Ljust to make sure I was not just losing it or just saying some nonsense 1 did refer
to some of my yu know formeryou know University you know graduates...
LC--Uh huh
MS-I did spoke to 2 of my former Managers and ! spoke to some friends and mostly most of them work in
(0227) you know engineering, developers and so on..
LC- Uh huh.
MS - They're doctors and so on. So the first point I wanted to repeat again and clarify and I think it is very
important, you see Dev-ops people are people who are working as both developers and this is the first point
developers and they're working as both developers and people of the ops team so they need to have you
know operation and skills and they need to be able to write code
LC - Uh huh.
MS -- Someone who is writing code is akin to someone who is writing a book you know and there are many
types of book writers, some book writers will just if given 8 hours to write a book will spend 6-7 hours just
sharpening the structure and the points they want to raise in the book and spend the last hour just pulling
these things altogether.
LC- Uh huh.
MS -- Some writers will just start to write straight away.
LC- Uh huh.
MS - Now the repository we're using the Github repository we are using it is like a book in which we're
writing right and you basically have generally speaking 3 main states, 1 state where the number of lines
you're writing are increasing...
LC- Uh huh.
MS - Another state where they are decreasing and the first state where obviously they remain similar
somehow.
LC- Uh huh.
MS - So the first day when you start working in the morning the repository in which your working alright it is
in a state I can call (0
3.56) alright at the end of the day it is (400) for the sake of simplification if we say that
Page2 of23-FM
LC - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 22 06.23

222

the (04
3)±s equal t 3 and {4.
p4)is equal t 5 you an basicall y say that it's just for the sake of simplification
you can basically see that awe've gt 2 Jines that gt added.
C- Uh huh.

MS - No t go mathema tically speaking to go fram 3 to S there are many ways t do it, yu can do 3+1+1
so that will be 2 (04.23) that gets you t 5.
LC--Uh huh.
MS - You can d0 3+05+05 +0.5 4 times that will get you to 5 too that ame t 4 (04.32) or you can do 3+2
and it will get y0u to 5.
LC-Uh huh.
MS- And what l wanted to say is when l was told.and what l'm mostly doing is you know when I'm working
during the day l tend to do 3+2 because I was talking to my former Managers who lend me the words for that
they said recorder repository should be considered as shrine. There are some people who are throwing some
stuff into it and rectifying it over time but there are some other people who are making sure every single bit
of code they're pushing is working and commented and fine and this is precisely what l've been doing, every
single line of code I've been pushing on the Github repository of the company is fully working and operational
because when I finished writing I tested on my machine so that's one point l wanted to raise.
LC- Ok
MS - So I spoke to people around me just to make sure I was not losing my sense and two of my former
Managers told me it's perfectly fine and maybe this is how you should be explaining it so that's why I'm just
using their words here.
LC- Ok.
MS - The second point I wanted to raise is the point of consistency and equality and treatment and while I'm
talking about that when ! first joined this company here Arnold Clark I have to insist on that..
LC - Uh huh.
MS - You know that was not the...it was not the only company I was (05.53) with it was not even the one
paying the most to be honest, I was also selected with Ryman the administration company but I have to be
very clear about it, from the job interview I had the gentleman who called me from HR for the recruitment
we first went through the CV, I forget his name but I really liked him over the phone. The discussion I had
with Claire and David to be frank when you look and no matter what happens or no matter what was said
when you look at David and Claire when you simply look at their faces it tells you a lot about who they are,
what kind of person they are and that was the main reason why I decided to come in here. But nonetheless
when I joined when I was first given access to the data centre here the first thing I noticed was the fact that
once your given access to the (06.46) server, from the (06.46) server the procedure we have you are given,
you work as a route account and you need to please write it down its very important, everyone works as a
route account. In terms of managing (07.00) infrastructure this is something extremely bad, this is something
extremely bad and to the counsel I spoke before coming, as I said one of them is (07.10) you know I work in
an environment where this simple fact will guarantee your dismissal on the spot.
LC- What will? Sorry just to clarify what will?

Page 30f23-FM
LC - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 22.06 23

223

AS - /prking from the rout aumt, everything you do is done from the route aunt berause with the
route acunt the slightest mista le you make cld have catastrophic conseq uences, worst yet. Even though
the company has zested a lot of money
protecting netwo rks if same sort of yber threat were to
manage to slip int, get int you inow the data centre just beause we tend run everything as route
aun t that cul} have catastrophr conseq uences in no time. Now l saw that from the first second was
into

shown the whole thing but Tm going t tell you one thing out of not only respet for the people woriing
here, out of the fat that technological perfection does not exist you know . didn't see it as1 know it's a
massivesecurity risk to be frank but I didn't jump on the bak of anyone t tell them that you know they are
not respecting the shrine they're not into the shrine of techno logical perfectio n therefore they do not know
how to use (8.13) because on Monday l was told that ! don't inow how to use Github because I commit,
excuse my French, the impertinence of making sure every single bit of ode l push in there is beautifully
written, fully functional before pushing it in there. So what l want to say is as l was brought to this table, it's
a question and I don't need an answer now, as l was brought to this table for interrogation I do hope that for
the sake of equality and consiste nt in treatment, the people who did allow the route account to be used by
all users on our back and also be brought to the table and asked the same kind of questions because I can't
be the only one, this is one thing. The second thing l also want to talk about is erm the third point l want to
raise is when l joined er on the day erm a few days after l joined, and mentioned that on Monday, the
company was suffering a yber attack and you can ask my Manager Claire about that, I felt awful about this,
why? Because before joining in here in my area in (0931) you know I was talking to one of my neighbours to
whom I said "Do you know what I start working for Amold lark." so when he saw that on the news and he
came to me and said Oh Marcel the cyber security expert, you start working for Amold Clark and they get
hacked." he was basically taking you know laughing at me which I can understand.
LC-Uh huh.
MS - So I shared that anecdote with my Manager if she remembers and then on the second and during that
time I send a message to my Manager Claire Thomson and also our big boss Mr David Moffat, what I told
them I said "Please, please I know I was not hired for that but I happen to have that experience, would you
please just give me the authorisation to just look on the open internet, the public internet and find possible
entry point these cyber criminals might have used into our network?" I was given 2 hours, within an hour I
gave them a list of more than 200 email addresses that were available online, so that would be used to
sending some (10.37)gave the lP address and names of all the sisters that were supposed to be on the you
know available from within our own network here but that were exposed online and I also told them how
to...which tool and how to use it to get the list (10.59) for every single of these systems. But then the question
I want to ask too is you know the company got hacked not because people in here are negligent this is not
the feeling I've had up until now but yet it happened. And the question I also want to know for the sake of
you know consistency and fairness of treatment was anyone brought to the same table right now because it
happened? I don't need to know but this is a question that needs to be answered and I'm asking these
questions because as I said everything I've done is online you know I took some screenshots of everything
because the project I was asked to work on. For the sake of simplification one more time you see at home
you have an internet connection most likely most of us do so you have home where you have your own
network, your own Wi-Fi and password, your neighbours are in the same situation they have their own
network and Wi-Fi and password and so on. If all of us here in the UK whether directly or indirectly are
customers of BT so BT has in fact for every single of us the configuration for all our routers. You know the
home routers we have BT does have the configuration for every single of them but let me tell you one thing,
do you think BT would put all this configuration into the same file and use that same file to manage all of us
in the UK? If they were to do so one mistake might destroy the internet configuration for the entire country
with (12.
36) consequences that might ensue and l'm taking that example to make you understand why when
I was given the job to do and I have to insist on that, when Claire gave me that task to start working on AWS
I have to insist AWS is like a Ferrari if you're not careful enough you might kill someone you know you're
going to press the wrong button the car would just go on its own and with the speed and power its got might
hurt someone or something. So this is why this is out of this principal of(13/10) that l went, I first of all made
Page 40f23-FM
LC -- CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL 5ANGARE - 22.06 23

224

sure that everything is
own flder because we can't manage all of them at the same tire and the reason
why l ased the version somewhere in the middle was berause the version 13.7 whih we use on Asia, that
version is not supported as of non, its gpt massive unreliability's. We have a service security team here you
can ask them. If you g and tadie it on the darknet for example you can buy some exploit related to these
things for $1, with conseq uences that can have. So that was the third point I wanted to raise. The fourth
point and that most iely introduce the problem with Mr Jason White is after this happened I had a meeting
with Claire and David after the tittle you know investigation oniine to find possible entry pots for these
people that were annoyi ng us and I told them l said "Please one more time, I know most Eiely this is none of
my prerogatives but as I happen to have some experience in it would you mind if 1 submit to your attention
a projet that will consist of._beca use at Amold dark here you know we have two ways of doing things, we
have the loud so you have Asia AWS is the one l know and you have our data centre. So for all the internet
traffic coming on into to server it is going through a system called (14
.39) is used for to load, balance the
traffit most of the time but it is used to direct the traffic towa rds such or such server. Now the great thing
with (14.52) is if a hacker is sending some (14.55) by default drops these packets (14
.58) but in all companies
including Amazon for whom I used to work and all my previous employers you know (15.06) you also use
your (15.08) as some sort of (15.09) so basically any bit of traffc coming in and out of your (15.13) is analysed
and any threat is you know there is an attempt for any threat to be blocked from there first. So I explained
to David and Claire that l wanted to examine the possibility of having the firewall installed on the (15.31) and
also two tools, one called (15.33) is basically a tool you use to detect any...because when someone wants to
attack you he needs to scan your infrastructure first of all, there is no way out of that. So with (15.46) we
will have the possibility from the (15
52) to detect any intrusion attempt, so anyone trying to scan our
infrastructure will catch him from here. But on top of that our (16.01) is running on (1603) and you know I
know our company invested a lot of money into some firewall offered by Cisco or Fortinet but I will tell you
one thing the firewall you find on Fortinet and Cisco is exactly the same firewall you find in the (16.19) system
so I told them that they could also run some firewall rules on this one and block a lot of bad traffic from this
point so basically building some sort of defence. They agreed on that and they thought I should be..I recall
distinctly that Claire even had spent some time thinking about the question. So during a team meeting, the
next team meeting she did announce the fact that herself and David spoke about that and I have to mention
that the simple fact the two of them took the time to listen to that idea, I have to be honest I did like it a lot
you know i was not doing it for fame, I was not doing it for money, it was just for the sake of the company
I'm working for. And during the next team meeting where Claire announced the ...she openly said that they
had a discussion with David and they were trying to see to think of the possibility of putting on (17.15) some
means to detect bad traffic and also stop it using the (17.24) firewall. Mr Jason White burst youknow he
became extremely angry as stated and I remember his words in the most you know the tone was brutal you
know as the man himself to be ...and I'm sorry but you know this is what it is, the tone was brutal and he
started to shout "We will not put a firewall on the (17.49) and everyone was quiet. The question I want to
know is this is...! don't know what you think about that but that simple action this is gross misconduct, you
can't... he is not the head of our team Claire is the one calling the shots, who gave you the possibility to even
behave like that. And you know what he spent hours, he spent many minutes arguing around that basically
saying how stupid it is and things like that. But let me tell you one thing, give you one reference, a few weeks
ago we had representation by the Cyber Security Team where they showed us, they gave us some details,
some insight towards the new ways of thinking in terms of cyber security at Arnold Clark and I recall the
meeting is recorded I think, there is a young lady sitting there I can't remember her name but she recorded
the meeting it is there. The gentleman speaking basically said that one thing we're trying to achieve here is
defence (18.52) so our (18.54) router would do its bit. AI! the main systems, collective systems inside our
network will also try to do their bits and also try to make sure that the end points can somehow you know
do whatever is possible. So he interrupted the meeting, he was basically shouting and saying "We will not
do that." and guess what it never happened, he is not the Manager of our team and I think this is a good
introduction to what I wanted to say.
ini
ts

.
a

a-.

LC-Ok.

Page 50f 23-FM
LC -CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 22.06.23

225

MS - You see I don't inow how you tan say that but maybe l wuld tale the risk t say this you know l
thought_on my way in! thought a lot about that but i dun't know how risiy or how bad itis but t will none

the less say You knwmy father was African and one thing he taught mne from a very young age ishe said
"N matter where yu go in this world yu know for reasons finked t hstry or sociology or whatever yu
want you wl unfrtmately see that you know men and women are not perfectly equal, unforma tely
women tend to have a bit more diffulties in life to reah their position. And he was all the time telling me
that no matter where you go when you see a woman somewh ere no matter where you go you need to see
her as your own mother. The way you would treat and respect your own mother is the way you should be
treating and respecti ng any woman who is in this world. And he added this thing, he added the thing that.he
also said that wherever you see a woman managing to get to a certain level you know of responsibility in
soiety your respect to her needs to be double. So the first part of your respect is the respect you owe t
any woman as your mother and the second part is the fat that if you see her getting that far it is because
she has some talent so your respect needs to be doubled. To be frank with you every time he is interrupting
Claire the way he talks to her, even once he shh her when she was talking and you can tell it from my voice I
felt and I still feel extremely offended by the ways of his behaviour and Claire will tell you that Clearly 1 have
been trying to avoid Mr Jason White you know sine the very beginning, he is rude in his manners, his
wording, the way he speaks like you know it's unbelievable. Even recently, not very long ago he was talking
about... none of us needs to know about that anyway, he was talking about his work permit in the UK, actually
I was very surprised l always thought he was you know a British national but he appears not to be. And he
was basically saying...I don't even know why he was saying that but he was basically saying I got my work
permit because of I think Mr Collins he said and I am sure he is now regretting that. What is the meaning of
this? What is the meaning of this? So you disrespect you co-workers, you treat them like idiots, every time
they will try to say or do something you will stop it with force when in fact.and you can hear it from me
talking he is far from being the strongest in the team like even in terms of character. But as I told you my
boss is a woman and as an African person my respect to her is doubled so therefore in front of her you know
in front of her I would never..once after meeting l you know...the first time he reacted this way I had a
meeting with her right afterwards where l told her that you know I have a lot of resentment towards his
sheer rudeness, I've never seen anything like it And after that meeting l even recall having told my daughter
that if she were to marry someone like him I would disown her on the spot and I was not kidding when I said
that. You know rudeness is one of the worst you know defects in life and these guys are just like that, and I
am happy it's recorded you know he is...I don't know what to say. So last week...to get to the point, last week
when I had that session with Claire the initial aim of the session was for Claire to show me you know how I
can much more easily merge these files we were talking about these configuration files. And when she got
to the meeting on the Thursday morning I think it was erm before the start of the meeting I told her I said
"Claire there is one thing I want to say is l've re-worked the configurations and now the merging of them is
way more easier and I'm going to tell you why. On Monday when we were here you know during the meeting
I was told that l shouldn't waste time building some tools on the side to make my work and ! disagree with
that. I work as a Dev-ops Engineer. The role of the Dev-ops is precisely (24.4) of whatever he can and this
is precisely what I was doing. If you check our repository online the Github we have you will see that the first
version of the configuration took I think about a couple of weeks to write. But before the meeting with Claire
the re-writing of all the configuration we've you know a stronger structure in terms of variable naming
because my main problem was coming from the first time I was trying to merge. It took I think a couple of
days and do you want to know why it went so quickly? It was not just a matter of experience no it was all
these little tools that have been on the side that gave me the ability actually to redo the (24.44) faster. And
I have to tell you one thing you know whatever task of configuration writing I would have been given
afterwards they've gone just as quickly because the tools I'm writing basically is you know when you need to
write a configuration you go on to a website, you get the template and you fill it up yourself and no matter
what we think that part is (25.10) what l've been...the little tools I have on the side are basically you know
automating that for you so if you want to rebuild for example an internet Gateway the main structure will be
there, the system will ask you the question you need to answer to give some prompt, once you answer this
prompt this part of the thing is added to the configuration so this is one thing I needed to say.
it.

Page 6 of23-FM
LC - CON!TNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY-MARCEL SANGARE - 22.06.23

226

LC-Uh huh.
MS- Maybe to introdue about t came tad t get bak to a few points I iurgot to mention iast time and
also to
the problem of the
of this gentleman. And during
meeting with Caire l
rerall distinctly
day before
meetingenm she was asting questions about erm the issues I was having
with the merging process and as is customa ry with him you know he interrupted her one more time which l
find I don't know maybe my education is to traditional or something but this is unthinkable t me that's
why it's a nem,
he interrupted her and said you inow with a very condescending voite you know
characteristi c of the individua l saying Mate you know we simply ask you to do a simply opy and paste,who
asked for your opinion? she is the Manager of the team,
is the one t make
kind of remarks, who
asked for your opinion and why do you allow yourself to interrupt her? So when daire asked me during our
last meeting she said "Are you talking your
1 say am talking them." she said
1said
Of course 1 am talking Zoe." Zoe has
a lovely personality and she is one of those ladies I was telling
you about_
i
n
trod
uce

attitude

the

th
e same

tha
t

but

she

to

to

co
ll
ea
gues
?"

these

I

to

Zoe
?"

go
t

LC- Uh huh.
MS - How many women we encounter out there. Same for Greig, great sense of humour and all the others
but when she came to Jason White l remain silent because as l wrote there I have been trying very hard
avoid the guy---

to

LC - Uh huh.
MS - Too rude, too brutal.
LC - And in terms of obviously you've put forward that you feel that the way that you know he acts erm
you've kind of said like how you've you know come out shaken and upset and things like that. Are you able
to like just so that you've got something with your work that you maybe need assistance with can you go to
you know Claire and Zoe, so you don't necessarily need to go to him so you can have other options yeah?
MS-Absolutely, absolutely and Claire and Zoe will tell you and even Greig when I have some problem I have
no problem whatsoever asking them.
LC - Yeah. And have you spoke to Claire just about your concerns with Jason, is that a conversation you've
had with her?
MS - After the first time he distinctly said "We" so he speaks in the name of everyone else "We will not be
implementing the firewall rules."
LC - Uh huh.
MS- Right after that meeting I told Claire that I need to talk to her.
LC - Ok.
MS-And I told her that I dislike very much his manner or the lack of it I would say.
LC- Ok.
MS - Now she ... after the meeting I understood that you know I listened carefully to what she had to say and
I thought to myself after admitting ... ! thought to myself ok I've raised my concern I'll stop right there as I
know the individual and I see him during almost every meeting calling the cyber security team his favourite
Page 7 of 23-FM
LC- CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY-MARCEL SANGARE - 2206 23

227

victins with the f vardwhich l would not even raise. in one sentence you have {7a43) the f word so you
know with all of that yu will errs me but t have been trying very hard t avoid hmm because he has no
respertfor anyone.
LC - Ok And are you finding that if you are Wike avoiding hmm as such that your still able to. because you've
gt other lleapyres, you've got your Manager, if you've got cnems you can go with them?
M5-l understand that, I have no problem with Greig
-Ok
MS-mean Greig's aware and Claire herself despite being sitting here tday, how can you have issues with
them they are easy going people?
LC- Ok, so you feel that your able to approach them yeah?
MS - Absolutely.
LC- Ok
MS - And my teams, on Microsoft Teams I cannot test them because I [29.22)
LC - Ok, no that's good that your able to approach other colleagues And there was just another few points
t just wanted to go through, I know we've kind of like spoken through a bit yesterday.
MS -- Yes.
LC - And ! just kind of wanted to ask yourself you've put in it just obviously due to the meeting you've been
in a state of distress where you had an accident without consequences, I just wanted to tie in with that just
to see if you're ok?
MS - No, no its fine.
LC- Ok.
MS - But you know and I mentioned that in my message even though I think on Monday in here in this room
I was told that {2955) is not working.
LC- Ok.
MS - Fortunately I took the screenshot and I saved. The final aim was the merging of all these individual files
and all these files are fully operational
LC- Ok.
MS- So they are all fully operational, the merging also will work but erm but the ...so on Thursday when we
went from the meeting we had where she clearly told me that little thing I had been putting together is
working and we will most likely get that resolved very soon.
LC - Uh huh.

Page 8 0f23-FM
LC - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 22.06.23

228

M5-And she even shoved me the next step as t when the merging is dane this is what l want ycu to add
on t that. lent from that t the email l received from you which l at first thought aas same sort of(30.45)
for my anser.
LC-Uh huh.
MS - So you know going from that to that you can understand how shaken l was so t speak.
C- Uh tuh.
MS - Yeah and so I lost onentraton on a few things and as I said that in writing it was without any

consequences so.
LC- Ok, alright And there's a few points 1 just kind of wanted to l inow we've kind of talked a bit of detail
on Tuesday but l just kind of want to irde back just after kind of darifying with Claire. So l know we discussed
the kind of current tasks that you've been working on and you said that that is running, you know you have
done that and Claire just advised that you know at one point whilst you have the resources imported and the
plans running erm the structure didn't meet what they were trying to achieve, there was no pipelines, there
was no PR and the branch was in no state to be merged which ultimately meant it didn't meet the definition
of done. What's your kind of thoughts on that would you say that is the case?
MS - Yeah, yeah, well in our team you raise the PR once you've..you know the process we have in the team
you raise a PR, so you know you raise a PR once you've finished work on a project and everyone agrees on
that, this is when you raise a PR that's one thing. Secondly erm saying that it is erm nothing is working I
would disagree with that, as I said I have the recording of the test run on every single of these VPCs and also
the test I showed her on Thursday which was the successful merging of many files at once. All of this is
working so all I would...of course it was not in the state of being merged yet...
LC-Ok.
MS - Because it was still work-in-progress
LC-Ok.
MS - As I say you have 21 files at first, once you start merging them 2x 2 you get to maybe 10 or 11 and then
up to point where you have a single file you need to push and once that single file is ready its only when that
single file is ready that you will be writing the you know the configuration and necessary for you to be able
to use you know our continued (33.0
7) this is how it works. So obviously it was still work-in-progress of
course, there was no PR raised because I was not done yet, the configuration for deployment is done once
everything is you know you've tested it, you know it's worked that's how it worked in our team.
LC-Ok.
MS - So I don't understand that.
LC - Ok. Have you got anything to add to that one?
DM - So you say you were done with the task but you also say it's a work-in-progress and it's not complete,
it can't be both things, the definition ...

Page 90f23-FM
LC- CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 220623

229

MS- Well as usual. and Im sorry t that, as usual with yu bearse as tld yu an Monday and V'm happy
reordmg that, yu know your rle here is basically t find anything wrung with me so you're not trying t
understand the context
DM-fmsorry you an't say that
MS -Sot will say that, l an say that because the thing is as i ld you the first attempt at working this, the
first attempt at working this, the first attempt at merging these fles was
DM --So !remember because you've said it multiple times its ok we an shortut that par of it
MS -- The first attempt_t'm not shutting up because this is the context your refusing to take int aount,
this is one problem I have with your approach, T'm sony, you refuse to take the context into acount and this
is wrong because if you don't take the context into account you cannot be objective you need t know that
So the first time we tried to merge all these files there were sme conflict in terms of varables.
DM - Right let's just.it's alrght, it's alright let's just_
MS - As I've mentioned now, as I've mentioned just now you know Ire-wrote the whole thing and showed
to Claire that the merging would go easier.
DM- But none of that we required, none of that was asked for, none of that was wanted._
MS - Ok so..
DM -- By Claire or you.
MS -- Ok so it took._are you actually telling me here that it took2 or 3 months for someone to know that was
not what was required, does it sound right to you?
DM -- People immediately told you that you...
MS - Does it sound right to you.
DM -- Sorry if I could just finish. People..Claire specifically gave you a task...
MS - Yeah.
DM - Which was to take an existing AWC infrastructure ...
MS - Yeah.
DM - To put it into (35./17)
MS -- Yes exactly.
DM - As a single configuration file that then could be used as a template and put into a pipeline.
MS - Ok.
DM - What you produced was not that. When you were told the version of the 22 different folders was not
the correct approach rather than stopping and doing the approach that we asked to do...
Page 10 of23-FM
LC - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORYMARCEL SANGARE- 22.06 23

230

A5- Yau want
DM - You twisted your urent architecture into something that wasn't required.
MS - Ok this is one more time your interpreta tion of the whole thing.
DM-It's not my interpretation it's the interpretation of the entire department
MS -It is your interpreta tion, so this is where the problem of bad faith is coming

in.

DM - There is no bad farth you refused t_
MS - There is bad faith let me tell you why, I've been doing that exercise for dose t a uple of months
DM-- Which is too long.
MS - Ok Ok that's your opinion and I respect that it's the same for me. When l joined it took me once again
to see that you know we have (36.05) yet it has been there for years.
DM -- But it took you 10 minutes to work out what your job was and you still haven't worked out what it is.
MS - No problem. So as l said you know putting all of that into a single file at once is not only risky but it's
very difficult.
DM- In your opinion but that's like your (36.20) in this whole team.
MS - When 1 spoke to her the first time I told her that "What are we doing we need to get the individual
configuration right first and once we know that the individual configurations are working then we will merge
them." and let me tell you this to prove you wrong the last meeting I had with her where I was showing her
that you know things weren't working that was precisely that showing that you know the merging of the
individual working configuration was fine she had no...she didn't see...she was not unhappy about that, there
was no condemnation about that and as I say zero condemnation and no contradiction, none of that for the
entire duration of the project so what is your opinion on that?
DM - Marcel you were just told by Laura three minutes ago...
MS- Yeah.
DM - That that's not what happened that Claire is certain that you were incorrect.
MS - Ok but this ...
LC - So are you disputing what Claire's saying?
MS - I am disputing that because it is under repository right now. So I have a simple question to ask if what
I was doing was completely wrong why for all this time no-one's stopping me? I'm asking you the question.
DM- We repeatedly tried to stop you...
MS- Oh really.

Page 11f23FM
LC - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 22.06.23

231

DM- Which iiswhy Jason gpt so frustrated at
M5 -So you see, you see, you see, ok fine, but the thing is yu see right now here, right now here, here fve
been stpped and 4 arept fr no good reason but for two months no waring, no complaint, zero, nothing,
you find that right?
C-l think though in terms of that process it was advised that you were course corrected a couple of times,
you spoke with Zoe who highligh ted issues with the structure and then you spoke with daire on a couple of
occasions just t query
it

MS-Yeah.
LC-So therefore from reading that like they are kind of cheking in with you and confirming that.
MS - No, no, no, no it's not confirming what he is saying here The first meeting I had with Claire was
regarding the version as I've said and I think we spoke long enough about that on Monday I don't want to
waste any more time with that but as i said the version 1.3.7 is outdated, not supported any more. So when
I was given no erm requirement and asked to do something about that I just used my good judgement to try
to at least start with a version that is at least supported, the 1.3.7 is not supported any more so this is why l
went for an intermediary version. Once I finished that the individual configuration were working and what
happened is when I had the meeting with Zoe she said "Ok the thing is with configuration you have you are
using a recent version but I would like you to use the 13.7." you know what I did I went back to work and
wrote the whole thing using 1.37 this is the story. This is not. I am sorry to tell you that this is not stopping
someone as such you know because stopping is stopping, this is not stopping and this is not even a warning
so let's be clear about that. Have you got any email or any letter whatever that was basically labelling that
as a waring? Absolutely not. And this is why I have and ! said that this is why I have issues with your way
of doing things because yau're not being objective and I need to state that here because I don't know how
things..how far we go you are not being objective. You have that repository right there and you are a
programmer yourself you can get there, you can connect to it, you can go online.
DM- I've seen it, Marcel l've seen it.
MS - And you can use the Github to see for yourself.
DM - And it's not acceptable.

MS - There is no warning, there was no warning.
DM -I can look at it and see what you did for the last 6 months it's not acceptable.
MS -Ok. Sorry? That's you opinion.
DM - What you've done for the last 6 months...well exactly, as a leader of this department. ..
MS-This is your opinion, that's your opinion but you need to prove it, why no warning? Because you know
the letter I received from HR, and let me make it clear for you here, the letter I received from HR where I'm
being told that...this is what was written that on Tuesday I might be losing my job on Tuesday. When
someone Is doing something wrong and I have to inform you on this you need to give him some clear warning
or to stop him as you say, this never happened you know what it means it was fine I was on the right track.
And the last meeting I had with Claire she distinctly said that this merging, this what I showed her was fine
and they will get...and she was sure and convinced that we were getting now to the final aim and she even
told me once the final aim is reached soon enough (4102) no erase (4
1,04) so that it can get merged into the
Page 120f23-FM
LC-CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 22 0623

232

main branch and then l want yu t do this and this. Doesit sound tp yu file a waring or a way of stopping
sprnene? You come in here your making allegation i mean sary right now you're erther just repeating
whatever Claire tld yu or are yu just here t find something wrong w@th me and this is what you've been
doing since Monday, your just making assumptio n with zero demonstration behind
Why wasn't l given a
written warning f whatever was ding was wrong? Im asking you the qustin, you're nut answering that
just trying t jump t your own assumptions. And when you say that this is your opinion fine as l say let's go
with someone else someone who knows what he is tailing about and let's review the whole thing and you
will see for yourself.
it

LC-in terms of obviously David being in this meeting today Davi is a Manager of the department therefore
he has a knowledge of the process of the structures of the odes and things fike that, therefore he does have
an understanding of the situation. And you know like l was kind of obviously discussing with yourself in terms
of this task you were of curse corrected a uple of times you know someone highlighted issues. You then
contacted Claire a couple of times and she was having to go over it again with yourself and the oncer is
that you should have the skills and the knowledge to be able t complete this task without.
MS - What I have to say is the couple of times Claire (42
.20) not in the sense that you know there were you
know I was on the completely wrong track whatsoever it was more in the sense of you know maybe giving
some advice here and there, this was not a meeting where you know.and when you're saying and where I
feel very frustrated and slightly insulted, sorry for saying that but this is how I feel right now, you say that
you've seen it and it doesn't work, if I doesn't work_because the aim of the exercise was to make sure there
is zero difference with the configuration we have on your repository and what we have on the cloud. When
you run (42.57) there is zero difference so what kind of unsuccessfu l work or attempt is that, can you explain
that to me? Because you're not talking..
DM - Were going over the same points again, we're going back over the same points...
MS - Yeah.
DM-I'm never going to convince you...
MS -- Yeah.
DM - So what's the point of continuing back and forward?
MS - Yeah, so what is your point there? What do you say about that, if it working, I mean I have the
screenshot, it is working.
DM - It's not done, it's not done, we're asking you was it done...
MS - Uh huh.
DM - You said it was done, it wasn't done.
LC- So in your opinion did it meet the definition of done?
MS - Sorry?
LC - in your opinion did that task meet the definition of done?
MS -- The definition of done, when we say something is completely done it's all finished.

Page 130f 23-FM
LC - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY-MARCEL SANGARE - 22.06.23

233

LC- Jh huh.
M5- N the thing is to get t the finish fine there ar same intermediary steps.
LC- So had you completed them all?

now

MS - Yeah and that's what I said i was just that the_this s what t told yu, t get t a single fle you
needed to merge 22 separate networks which this gentleman here doesn't seem t understand these are
separate networks.
LC-Uh huh.
MS- So you need t write the configuration for every single of them and then try to merge them without
causing an accident by the way ok.
LC-Uh huh.
MS--So this is what l was doing. So for a job to be done you need to go successfully through the intermediary
steps, and the last meeting we had she was not disputing me for that you know we were on the right track
she said that herself so what is he talking about now?
LC- So l'm asking you like did that task meet the definition of done?
MS -It was not completely done.
LC-Uh huh.
MS - But as l say during the last meeting we had she was certain that it would get done very soon.
LC- So I think in terms of that the concern is the time taken to get to the point of it being the definition of
done to which where we're still not at, and that's the concern obviously in terms of that task how long it's
taken you to get to that point.
MS - I understand that and as l said this is the point we can discuss about till the end of time if necessary..
LC - Uh huh.
MS - But if we stick to the fact the plain fact is the time taken.
LC - Uh huh.
MS - You know these are as l said there was the writing the configuration for AS was unchartered territory
there was no requirement you understand?
LC -Ok.
MS - So as l said on Monday the first attempt was to avoid using the (45.21) which is not recommended but
AWS (45.24) and try to write it from scratch.
LC-Ok.

Page 140!23-FM
LC - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 22.06.23

234

Mt5- So when l fund that out and ame t share it with Claire she said t me that she didn't want that she
wanted t go fr the telephone import
lC-Yeah.
MS- When t went that route then ve used {45.41) and t have to say that, a rent version of the software
because we needed t tale something that is at least recent and not outdated, it's seems you know logical
to me. And when finished to do that Zoe told me Ok you've done it howeverwe would he this to be at
the same level as Asia." but as l mentioned on Monday Asia AWS are two separate produts.
LC-- Yeah so one point that you did put forward that there were no requirements in terms of the tasks so
that's something that l darified with Claire.
MS- Yeah, uh huh.
LC- So she'd kind of said that as the ticket was split the original description about which repo to use and that
it should be the same as our AKS structure was left on the first one and whilst the ticket didn't specify the
exact version to be used
MS -Uh huh
LC - Marcel had used our current repo and it was expected given his experience that he would follow the
structure and versioning that was consistent throughout.
MS- No this is too easy to speak like that, you see what l've got to say this is too easy to speak like that
LC - What do you mean by that?
MS - You know when you work in this software project or software work in general (1) there is no (46.52)
requirement because what you're reading i mean this is the Jira, I think it is coming from the Jira you know l
don't have the printing of it sol can't tell you ! have got no more access.
LC - Uh huh
MS - But one thing I can tell you Jira is not a requirement that's one thing. And secondly when I'm talking
about requirement here it's a proper document where you give clear instruction as to what you want to
achieve, how you want to achieve it and so on.
DM -I'm sorry Jira is a requirement that is (47
21)
MS - So right now, right now, from the first instruction I was given and I don't know if you can find a
screenshot of it you know there was no specification in terms of use that version of the software for example,
that's one.
LC - Uh huh.
MS - And l did it for quite some time, we had some meetings every day, every single day what l was reporting
about that so why is it that they didn't raise any concern then?
LC - Ok And it says that you know given your experience it would be expected..
MS- No, no.
Page 150f23-FM
LC - CONTNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 22.06 23

235

'IC-N, can I ask a questionsorry? tt said that given your experience would be experted that you would
follow the struture anti versionmg that was consistent throughout, whar's your thoughts on that?
it

M5- And given my experiene also, given my experiene also, it is necessary when we want t avoid his sort
of disussion to givea dear written requirement. And givenmy experience also it is wrong t use an outdated
and unsupported version of the to! to write configuration. So this point why is it not taken into aunt?
And as l say, the last point want to raise, we have daily meetingsLC-Uh huh.
MS-For how many months Tve been here.
LC- Uh huh.
MS -- Since December, so dose to 7 months, so out of these 7 months if what I was doing was that rubbish
why there is no clear waring about my work?
LC -- So Claire advised that she did on numerous occasions point out to yourself that things weren't being
committed or were not as expected leaving
MS - It's not on numerous occasions
LC - Sorry..
MS - It was just once and I remember and I have a screenshot of that.
LC - Leading course corrections throughout the tasks.
MS - Yeah.
LC - So she said that she had repeatedly asked you to push, remember to push and things like that.
MS- Yeah, and this is not numerous occasions it happened once and you want to know when precisely it
was?
LC - Uh huh.
MS -It was at the time where we were changing...when I was changing the version from the recent one lwas
using to the old one, there were a couple of days where I was just trying to work everything and during that
time we had a meeting where she told me but why is it that you are not pushing, pushing things and I told
her "No I'm just re-working the whole structure before getting..." and started again and that was just once.
LC - And can you recall when that was?
MS - I don't have the date on top of my mind but I have the screenshot I can send you the date later.
LC - Yeah, just because l've got some information from her so she had sent a message on 27 April just to
say remember to push your work to the branch.
MS - Ok.

Page 16 at23-FM
LC - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 22 06 23

236

LC- She had sentone on 19 May saying please remember t push your local mm7ts t GIT.
M5- Yeah, uh huh.
LC - Erm she also mentioned again on 23" May saying just remember to commit
MS -Uh huh.
LC - So you know that's several occasions that she is saying to yourself.
MS -- Ok and here again I can explain that. The first time she mentioned that, the first time she mentioned
and push as I said l was in the process of reworking things, that's one.
LC- Uh huh.
MS - The second time she mentioned this and l'm sure l can find the answer I sent to her on that occasion,
on that occasion I told her "Yes will do it l'm just you know finishing to re-work the lines of code I have here
before pushing it." beause as l said before and N think the second time that was one day at around if you
look at the time it was most likely the second occasion that we're talking about that was most likely before
12.00 pm.
LC-Ok
MS - Yeah, am I correct? And if you check you know usually when I push some coding it is usually after that
time..
LC-Ok.
MS- Because in the morning I'm still working so this is the information for the second occasion. And as I said
I'm sorry like you know for the kind of work I was doing on AWS there are two things there, there is the
writing of code of course but there is also the work around and the impact whatever you're doing with the
procedure and sometimes it takes time...
LC - Uh huh.
MS - Its not just about pushing code you also need to check the consequence of what you're doing.
LC - Yeah I understand that but obviously in terms of you know the processes of Arnold Clark like pushing
the code is something that you know we expect the engineers to do, and from speaking with David you know
he kind of stipulated maybe S or 6 times a day. And Claire says that you know although that's you know
maybe the expectation she wasn't asking yourself to do that she was asking yourself to maybe do it daily.
MS - Uh huh.
LC - But there was times there was maybe like a space of like a week where you weren't pushing at all.
MS - No, no that was right in the beginning because it took quite a bit of time because all the things that
you're saying right now I don't have the screenshot right in front of me ...
LC- Uh huh.
MS - But as I do have a copy of our discussions I can clearly explain all these things.
Page 170f23-FM
LC - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 22 06 23

237

(C--Ok

M5 - And one mare tie what I have t say and t have to emphasise on that with the #ind of work we are
ding when we are tying to reassess the situation you know before doing some real work, making some
important changes, wile your doing that work of assessment you cant be pushing at the same time. And
when I joined, and I need to insist on that, when l joined erm at the time l joined it was happening you know,
the time I joined the company was having some issues, l think it was only.erm and I wasn't.I was the one
actually you know runing after her even to get some stuff to do. I think it's only around if ry memory is
correct but I7 need to check my note and give you a precise date but I think it was only around
February/March that i was given AWS task to start working on. And t think l'll explain many more times what
happened and all these things that I have been saying I don't see and I'm sorry to say that, I don't see where
I was being negligent or where l wasbeause to receive the letter I received you know the intent of what l
was doing should have been to maybe being careless about the interest of the company or not or being
umwilling to do the things property.
LC- Uh huh
MS - And I have to insist on that erm the first time she told me to push l was still analysing, the two other
times these were just_and that's how I took friendly reminders, the second time as you said on the second
occasion where she spoke about that you know that was a friendly reminder because right after that l was
pushing the code you know. When I received that from her l was still working on the thing, I can't be pushing
something that is bugged or something like that and this is not and this is what l've been trying to explain,
when I first joined you know every time l am pushing some code, the code l'm pushing has been fully tested
and is working Now I know some people...and this is what l explained, to get from 3 to 5 there are many
ways to do it Now where is it written for example in my contract that I should be pushing 5 times a day? In
my contract...
LC- But Claire said to you several times to make sure you're pushing daily so the expectation is that you
follow management instruction. You said that you know you trust Claire.
MS - And this is what I'm saying I was following management instruction, when I was not pushing I was
analysing maybe some bugs or just trying to see the consequences of code I was doing.
LC - l appreciate that but the expectation and part of the process is that you push at the very minimal once
a day...
MS - Yeah.
LC - Because when you're doing that it means that management like Claire etc can go in, they can check
your work, if you're not doing that they can't do that.
MS - But then the point you're not raising is you know we have some daily meetings where we talk about
the problems we've had or what happens during the day. As I said when you are having to deal with some
infrastructure problem you can't be pushing at the same time. I think what is happening here, I think what is
happening here is you know and this Is what I told you on Monday, if it's just a way to justify what happened
I think its fine you know people can justify or find justification for anything but the thing is we also need to
analyse the circumstances this is what l mentioned just now and we also need to take into account the broad
context. When you're analysing the infrastructure after having done some modification and going from
something you can't be pushing at the same time, you can't be told that.

Page 18 !23-FM
LC - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 22.06 23

238

C- Bt the expetation is that yu should at least be pushing daily whuh yu weren't yu were going days
without pushing and that's a cnern.
MS -And as1say that was in the early beginning and as 1 said if what your saying istrue and if that was an
issue wty didn't get a written waring about that?
LC- You were spoken t on several oasins by management t ensure that you re pushing.
MS- No, no, what you've just read, !'m sorry to say that madam, what you just read is not a dear warning,
this is not a warning Tm sorry.
LC- But its management giving you instruction that you failed to follow.
MS - Which l was following of course, which I was following but this what you just read is not a waring.
LC -!'m not saying it's a warning l'm saying that you were given management instruction.
MS - Which l was following and I repeat that again but..and I think I have explained myself on numerous
times about that. I have never disrespected her.
LC - Uh huh.
MS - Whatever she was telling me to do I will do it
LC- Yeah.
MS - And for whenever I was not able to do it l will tell her why, this is why we have our daily meeting if you
see what I mean?
LC -- Yeah, so Claire raised concerns to myself that you haven't been pushing daily and that she's got concerns
with that and you've said that you and Claire have a good relationship so why do you think that Claire is
raising these concerns about you not pushing?
MS - As I said this is not a concern, the first time she spoke about that...
LC -- Its not for you to say its not a concern l've got management telling us it's a concern.
MS - Ok but I am also entitled to give some explanation about what I saw and what happened ok?
LC - Yeah of course.
MS - Ok so as I told you the first time she mentioned that as I said I was in the process of reanalysing things...
LC- Uh huh.
MS - And I even explained to her what happened. The second time she raised that concern ...
LC- Uh huh.
MS - I'm sure I can find that screenshot, I replied to her that don't worry I will do it, I'm just finishing some
written pieces of the code if you see what I mean?

Page 19of23-FM
LC - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY-MARCEL SANGARE - 22 06 23

239

-

LC-Uh huh
M5 - So hat's what l said zhe send time but the point l want t raise fr of all l have never disputed
whatever she asked me to do, I disagree with that sorry ok And the second point is whatever yu say this is
not a waring, this is not a waring because for the letter I received from you an Thursday that was telling
me yu know you could lase your job on Tuesday, no I mean to get t that point there is a process to be
followed and l am sorry the process was not followed. Now i think sine Monday and l don't want to keep
on talking for to long, smne Monday I think l gave you my version of everything
i
s

LC-Uh huh.
MS -I have tried to explain you know what happened and can't do any better than that.
LC - Ok, alright Anything that you want to elaborate on, anything else that you want to go through at all?
MS-I think l've said it all so you know I will go with whatever you have to do
LC- Anything that you want to elaborate on?
DM --l'm fine.
LC - No, perfect. So what we will do Marcel is we will just take an adjournment to consider everything that's
been put forward today so what to do is even if you just want to kind of go and sit in the hub or something
like that_
MS -Ok.
LC - Then when l'm able to reconvene erm we will call you back through, is that alright?
MS - Ok, ok.
LC - Perfect.
Meeting adjourned:
Meeting reconvened:
LC - That's it just on there. Alright so this is the second half of the meeting.
MS - Uh huh.
LC- So in the first half of the meeting we obviously considered everything that's been put forward, we've
considered everything sorry that's been put forward sorry in the first half of the meeting. So we discussed
concerns with your overall capability within your role erm and that was specifically in relation to your failure
to perform tasks In a timely manner, erm to utilise our systems efficiently and to perform the tasks expected
in your role to the standard expected. So in terms of the concerns that you brought to my attention today I
know you discussed a few at the start erm one of which being the route account. So I spoke to David Keenan
just in relation to that and he has advised that that is something that is being investigated.
MS - Ok.

Page 20 0f 23-FM
LC - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 22 06.23

240

4-Howeveryou lnowl do aknowledge that isa separate amnern. You also queried as well about whoever
was responsible for the yber atak if they've
kind of brought t the table, and again you inow this is
a separate matter and it is you inow obvioushy being looked into, but I obviously can confirm that you know
Arnold Clark do treat all employees equally and will tale artion as and when required.
been

MS--Ok.

spoke through our concerns with the current tasks
disussed that how yu didn't utilise the
processes correctly which therefore has had an impact an the time taken t do the task.

LC- We

and

we

MS -Ok
LC- And this task should have taken three days...
MS -Uh huh.
LC - However you acknowledge that it is still not complete and you know that is a oncem for us as you were
hired as a replacement erm you know to be able to pick up these tasks.
MS- Ok.
LC - However you did take it upon yourself to use a different process.
MS - This is not true but yeah if that's your opinion that's fine.
LC - Ok. As you know you specified you know yourself that there was no requirements given erm however
from speaking with management you know given your experience that you should have all the structure and
versioning that was consistent throughout..
MS - Obviously, obviously.
LC - However you failed to do so.

MS - Ok.
LC - We also spoke through your concerns with your failure to push despite Claire advising you on several
occasions to do so and you know you'll know yourself because you regulate as an industry standard erm as
there is a requirement for you to do so, erm however you failed to regularly do this erm despite receiving
management instruction
you to do this. Vou spoke through the concerns with Jason White erm and
you spoke through also concerns with the way Jason White was kind of towards Claire. And I have spoken
with Claire who advised that you know whilst Jason can be quite blunt and to the point she has no concerns
with his conduct erm and would contact us if she had a concern with how Jason spoke with her. And you did
advise that you have other individuals to approach should you require any assistance including Greig, Claire,
Zoe and therefore I appreciate while you know how you felt in this situation erm however I do acknowledge
that you've got other individuals that you can approach erm and therefore I don't believe that your
relationship with Jason would impact on your performance. You advised that you have had no written
warning regarding your performance erm however as mentioned you did have several messages from Claire
giving you management instruction.
advising

MS- Yeah well this is .. .it doesn't hold but its fine, so the conclusion of it if you don't mind me asking.. ?
LC - Yeah l'm just getting to that.
Page 21 of 23- FM
C - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORYMARCEL SANGARE - 22 06 23

241

MS-Ok.
C- So despite yu know Claire giving you several management instru ctions
MS- Uh huh
LC - You know you did fail to follow these instructions and on top of this we do have concerns with your
overall performance to date which you have failed to foflow our processes which has resulted in jobs taling
excessive time.

MS -Ok.
LC-- Erm I did advise in the letter and at the start of the first meeting that a potential outcome would be your
dismissal from the company and that is the decision that N have made today.
MS - Uh huh.
LC - So you will be paid 4 weeks notice in lieu however we won't ask you to work that.
MS- Ok.
LC - We'll just ask you to finish up today and we will pay you that.
MS - Uh huh.
LC-I will send you a letter just to confirm the outcome today...
MS - Ok.
LC- And you do have the right to appeal against my decision.

MS - Ok.
LC - And details on how to do so will be stipulated in the letter.
MS - Ok, ok
LC - And we obviously ask for all equipment if you've got what you've got...
MS - They're right here, so the laptop..
LC - Yeah to leave that.
MS- And the bag, ok no problem.
LC - And if you've got anything else then just liaise with management.
MS- Erm regarding the payment in lieu?
LC - Uh huh.

Page 22 of23-FM
LC - CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 22 06 23

242

NM/5 - Wold you please. an l please ask syu t send me an emai l with the details oaf whatever you know rt
will be erm yu know you said so you inw of whatever Ti be receiving before leaving. And an l please.,
please ask yu its very importantto get you know a work certificate you know so stating the fart that l started
to work here on suh date and finish on suh a date and this is (0418} that's all Im asking.
LC-Okyeah lan..
MS - So work certifica te and please an email detailing you know what fl be getting so how many paid
holidays that Ive got and not taken you know what am I receiving basically.
LC-Ok
MS - But beyo nd that the pass is right here.
LC-Ok.
MS- The laptop is here so I think I've got in it for you, so inside you have. here is the erm batter, the charger
sorry...
LC- Ok.
MS - Here is the laptop, so it's all fine.
LC- Ok.
MS -All you have is another piece of paper here too, and here is the bag.
LC- Ok.
MS - Alright so I think we are...
LC- Ok, yeah I will get a letter sent out to you and I'll get those details to yourself alright.

MS - Ok. Sorry do you mind escorting me to ...
LC -- Are you ok to walk him round yeah?
DM - Yeah.
LC- Yeah, perfect, alright, thank you very much.
Meeting ends.

Page 230f23- FM
LC- CONITNUED EMPLOYMENT MEETING - MORY MARCEL SANGARE - 22 06.23

243

