

--- Start of 29.acas_guide_bullying_at_work.txt ---



--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 29.acas_guide_bullying_at_work.pdf

acas

Bullying at work

What bullying is

Although there is no legal definition of bullying, it can be described as unwanted behaviour from a person or group that is either:

e offensive, intimidating, malicious or insulting
e an abuse or misuse of power that undermines, humiliates, or causes physical or emotional harm to someone

Bullying might:

e be a regular pattern of behaviour or a one-off incident
e happen face-to-face, on social media, in emails or calls
e happen at work or in other work-related situations

e not always be obvious or noticed by others

It's possible someone might not know their behaviour is bullying. It can still be bullying even if they do not realise it or do not intend to
bully someone.

Examples of bullying

Examples of bullying at work could include:

e constantly criticising someone's work

e spreading malicious rumours about someone

e constantly putting someone down in meetings

e deliberately giving someone a heavier workload than everyone else

e excluding someone from team social events

e putting humiliating, offensive or threatening comments or photos on social media

Upward bullying

Bullying can also happen from staff towards someone more senior, for example a manager. This is sometimes called 'upward bullying’
or ‘subordinate bullying’.

It can be from one employee or a group of employees.
Examples of upward bullying can include:

e showing continued disrespect
e refusing to complete tasks
e spreading rumours

Page 1

258


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 29.acas_guide_bullying_at_work.pdf

e constantly undermining someone's authority
e doing things to make someone seem unskilled or unable to do their job properly

It can be difficult for someone in a senior role to realise they're experiencing bullying behaviour from their staff.

It's important to consider the real reasons for the behaviour. For example, there might be a wider issue with the culture of the
organisation that can be identified and addressed.

When bullying might be harassment

Bullying and harassment are often confused. By law (Equality Act 2010), bullying behaviour can be harassment if it relates to any of
the following ‘protected characteristics’:

e age
e disability

e gender reassignment
e race

e religion or belief

e Sex

e sexual orientation

Find out more about harassment

 

Bullying that's not classed as harassment could still lead to other legal issues. For example, severe bullying might contribute towards
constructive dismissal.

Employer responsibilities
Employers and employees have a mutual duty to treat each other honestly and with respect.

This means employees have the right to:

e have trust and confidence in their employer
e expect not to be bullied at work

Employers have the right to:

e expect employees not to bully each other
e expect employees to treat their managers with respect and follow all reasonable instructions

Employers also have a legal duty of care to protect their employees from harm. This includes dealing with bullying issues.
Employers should:

e do all they can to try to prevent bullying happening
e take any bullying complaint seriously and look into it as soon as possible

Find out how employers should handle a bullying complaint

 

Contact the Acas helpline

If you need help with understanding bullying, you can contact the Acas helpline.

Page 2

251


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 29.acas_guide_bullying_at_work.pdf

acas

Dealing with a problem raised by an employee

Many problems at work can be resolved informally, for example through an informal chat.

An employee could raise a problem informally by telling their line manager or someone else at work, for example, another manager or
someone in HR. It does not have to be in writing at this stage.

Take the problem seriously

If an employee raises a problem informally, you should still take it seriously.

If you do not, the problem might be raised as a formal grievance later. A formal grievance might lead to the employee making a claim
to an employment tribunal if it's not resolved.

It's also important to take it seriously to help:

e keep a good working relationship with the employee
e avoid a formal grievance procedure — this can affect your organisation's reputation, take time and be difficult for everyone
involved

It's a good idea to:

e set up an informal chat or meeting to discuss their concerns
e agree to any request from the employee to bring someone they work with, a trade union representative or other relevant person
to a meeting

It's usually up to you to agree if the employee can bring someone else to the meeting. If discrimination law applies you might have to
allow someone to come with them to help remove any disadvantage.

For example, allowing a support or care worker to attend to provide support could be considered a reasonable adjustment if it would
reduce any disadvantage a disabled person might face in raising their problem.

Solving the problem should be a two-way process so that:

e you let the employee explain the problem and any solution, for example asking the employee what they would like done about it
e the employee listens to what you have to say

Keep a record

You should keep a record of how you dealt with the problem, even if it was informal.
The record should include:

e what the problem is about
e what you did, such as have an informal meeting

Page 1

252


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 29.acas_guide_bullying_at_work.pdf

e what was discussed in any informal chat or meeting
e any next steps agreed
e the reasons for any next steps

It's a good idea to make sure next steps are clear, specific and measurable. For example, 'person A will do action B by date C,
because of reason D'.

Following up

You should ask the employee if the problem is now resolved for them. If it is not, to move things forward you could:

e check any next steps have been completed
e set up more informal discussions
e find out if anything else can be done

You should remind them they can also raise the grievance formally.

If the employee raises a formal grievance

The employee might raise the grievance formally if:

e they feel raising it informally has not worked
e it's a serious issue, for example sexual assault or whistleblowing
e they do not want to resolve it informally — you can still suggest this as an option

They should raise the formal grievance:

e as soon as possible
e in writing, outlining what the problem is

If you do not follow a formal procedure, it could affect the outcome if the problem reaches an employment tribunal.
Who they should raise it with

You should have an organisation grievance policy that says who employees should raise grievances to.

If you do not have one, they should raise it to a manager. This can be either their own manager or someone else, such as an HR
manager.

Using mediation

You can use mediation at any stage of the procedure. Mediation involves an independent, impartial person helping both sides to find a
solution.

The mediator can be someone from inside or outside your organisation. If they're from outside your organisation, you might need to
pay.

Both sides will need to agree to mediation.

Find out more about mediation at work

 

Page 2

253


--- New Page 5 ---
Page number: 5
Title of ebook of origin: 29.acas_guide_bullying_at_work.pdf

Further help and support

If you need help with a problem raised by an employee, you can contact the Acas helpline to talk through your options.

Acas also provides:

e skills for line manager training
¢ conflict management training
e tailored support for employers

Page 3

254

--- End of 29.acas_guide_bullying_at_work.txt ---


--- Start of 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.txt ---



--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

acas working
for everyone

Discipline and
Grievances at
WOrkK

The Acas guide

I

 


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

 

About Acas — What we do

Acas provides information, advice, training, conciliation and other services for
employers and employees to help prevent or resolve workplace problems. Go to
www.acas.org.uk for more details.

 

 

July 2020

Information in this guide has been revised up to the date of publication. For
more information, go to the Acas website at www.acas.org.uk

Legal information is provided for guidance only and should not be regarded as an
authoritative statement of the law, which can only be made by reference to the
particular circumstances which apply. It may, therefore, be wise to seek legal
advice.

 

256


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Contents
INtrOCuction .....cccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeee eee eee eee nena eeee eee 5
Handling discipline — AN OVErViCW .......:ccceeeeee cette eee eee ee eee eee eee eee eaten eaten eae d 7
Handling grievances — AN OVEFVICW .......cceceeee eee e eee eee eee eee eee eee eae eae e eats 8
USING MEdiatiOn..........c cece eee ented 8
Discipline: keys to handling disciplinary problems in the workplace..... 10
Resolve discipline issues INFOrMAllY ........ cece ecee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee nae eee ees 10
Develop ruleS ANd PrOCECUreS oo... cece cece eee eee een ene 11
TT@INING . oie nnn enn neta 14
Keeping Written reCOrdS .......cccecee cee ee eee eee eee neers ene eee eee tenet eae 14
Dealing fairly with formal disciplinary ACtION ........ccecceeceee eee eee eeaeeeee eee eae ees 15
Establishing the facts ..........ccceeceeee cece eee eee eee eee eee eee 16
INFOrMING the EMPlOVEE 2... cece cece eee ee ee EEE nee eee ena e enna 18
Holding a disciplinary Meeting ..........cc cece cece ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ees 18
How should the disciplinary meeting be CONGUCtEd? ........ cece eceeee eee teen eens 20
Allowing a worker to be ACCOMPANIE ......... 0: cece cece ee eee teeta eee tetas ee eae eae eaee 23
Taking action after the disciplinary Meeting ...........cceceeeeee eect ee eee eee e ee eee eae ees 26
Provide employees with an opportunity to appeal..........ccceeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eens 33
Dealing with Special CAS€CS.........cccceeee eee eee ee eee eee ee eee eee eee rene eee eae eae eas 34
Grievances: keys to handling grievances in the workplace ......scsssesseeees 37
Resolve grievances infOrmally.........ccccceeeeee eee e eee e eee eee eee eee este estas teeta eas 37
Developing ruleS ANd PrOCECUFeS ...... i ccecee cece eee e eee eee eee nena e neta 37
What is a grievance and why have a ProCedCUre? ......ccecccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneenaes 37
Keeping Written reCOrdS .......cccecee cee ee eee eee eee neers ene eee eee tenet eae 39
Dealing with formal Gri€VANCES ..........c cece eee eee e eee eee teens eens eee teeta 40
Let the employer know the nature of the Gri€VANCe........ccceeeeeee eee e eee eeeeeaeees 41
Holding a GrieVance MECtING ........:c eee eee cece eee teeter e eee teen eee eee eee eas 42
Allowing a worker to be accompanied at the grievance meeting...........:::06 44
Decide ON appropriate ACtION .......ccec cece tee ee ee eee ene n nena 48
Allow the employee to take the grievance further if not resolved ............6055 48
APPCNIX 1. .cccccceeceeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeeneeeneeaneeaneeeneeaaeeneeenenaneeaneens 50
Disciplinary rules for Small OrgaNniSatiONS ........ccecceeee eee e eee e eee ee eens eeeeenee nets 50
APPCNIX 2... .ccccceesceeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeee seen eneeaneeaneeaneeeaeeneeeneeanenaneeas 51
Sample disciplinary and grieVANCe PrOCEdUeES .......cccceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeneeaaes 51
3

257


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Sample disciplinary procedure (Small OrganiSatiOn) .........ccceceeeee seen eee ene eaaes 54
APPCNIX 3B. ucccccccesceeeeeeeeeeceesceeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeene eee eneeaneeaneeaneeaaeeneeenenanenaneens 56
Y=) 00) 9) (0 (a1 =) 56
APPCNIX 4... cccccceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee seen eeeeene eens ene eeeeeaneeaneeaneeeneeneeenenanenaneeas 64
Dealing With ADSENCE ....... cece eee e tener eee eee eee eee eee 64
APPCNIX Buu ccccccceeceeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeene eee eneeaneeaneeaneeaaeeneeeneeaneeaneens 70
Basic principles of the Data Protection Act 2018 and The Equality Act 2010.. 70
GIOSSALY wa ccceeceeceeeeeeeceeeseeeeeeeee seen eeeeeee eens eee eee aeeeaeeeaneeaneeaaeeneeeneeaneeaneeaneeas 73
Further information .......ccccceceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeeeaeeoueaeeaeeaeeaueaeeageegeageageas 75
Keep up-to-date and Stay InfOrmea ......cccesseeeeeeeeeseeeseeeseeeaneeaseeeeeenenenens 75
4

258


--- New Page 5 ---
Page number: 5
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Introduction

This guide provides good practice advice for dealing with discipline and
grievances in the workplace. It complements the Acas Code of Practice on
disciplinary and grievance procedures. Extracts from the Code of Practice are
reproduced in boxes accompanied by further practical advice and guidance.

The Acas Code of Practice sets out principles for handling disciplinary and
grievance situations in the workplace. This guide provides more detailed advice
and guidance that employers and employees will often find helpful both in
general terms and in individual cases.

 

Employment Tribunals and the Acas Code of Practice on
Disciplinary and Grievance procedures

Employment tribunals are legally required to take the Acas Code of Practice into
account when considering relevant cases.

Tribunals are also be able to adjust any compensatory awards made in these
cases by up to 25 per cent for unreasonable failure to comply with any provision
of the Code.

This means that if the tribunal feels that an employer has unreasonably failed to
follow the guidance set out in the Code they can increase any award they have
made by up to 25 per cent.

Conversely, if they feel an employee has unreasonably failed to follow the
guidance set out in the Code they can reduce any award they have made by up
to 25 per cent.

Employment tribunals are not required to have regard to guidance in this booklet
that does not form part of the Code.

 

The law on unfair dismissal requires employers to act reasonably when dealing
with disciplinary issues. What is classed as reasonable behaviour will depend on
the circumstances of each case, and is ultimately a matter for employment
tribunals to decide. However, the core principles are set out in the Acas Code of
Practice.

Employers and employees should always seek to resolve disciplinary and
grievance issues in the workplace. If discipline and grievance issues are settled
at an early stage they are normally less time-consuming and less likely to
damage working relationships.

Good employment relations practices - including for recruitment, induction
training, communications and consultation —- can prevent many discipline and
grievance problems arising. Organisations are also more likely to have positive
employment relationships if they make efforts to gain their employees’
commitment through:

e showing them clear leadership and letting them know how they can
contribute

259


--- New Page 6 ---
Page number: 6
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work
* engaging them in their work and giving them the power to make some

decisions themselves rather than trying to control and restrict them

e showing them respect and appreciation

° giving them ways to voice their views and concerns.

Acas provides comprehensive guidance on employment issues which you can
download from our website, and information about suitable training. For further
details see the Acas website www.acas.org.uk

268


--- New Page 7 ---
Page number: 7
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Handling discipline — An overview

° Always follow the Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and
grievance procedures
° It may be helpful to consider mediation at any stage

el informal Take formal action Inform employee of
action ° establish facts ou
wherever ° notify employee * no penalty
stereo in writing a Milica
¢ hold meeting warning/improvement
e allow the note
employee © final written warning
to be ¢ dismissal or other
accompanied sanction
re [-1el(e(-mel(eri[e)a)

Issue resolved —
Action
complete
NOTE: check
your policies
and procedures
are up-to-date

Conduct or Provide employees with
performance an opportunity to appeal
fails to

improve

UN NIol 1a) Nate

take further

action

Employee

Conduct or
dismissed

performance

improves =

fo Les ifoy a
complete

 

261


--- New Page 8 ---
Page number: 8
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work
Handling grievances — An overview

 

ors, oe

.
he oF Se,
ats ote ate ke
ot ot

Employee to let the
employer know the
grievance in writing

Meeting to discuss the
grievance

often a quiet
word is all that

is needed Allow the employee to

be accompanied at
the meeting

Decide on appropriate
action

Allow the employee to
appeal if not satisfied

It may be helpful to consider mediation
at any stage of a dispute.

Train managers and employee
representatives to handle grievances
effectively

 

Deal with appeal
impartially and where

possible by a manager
not previously involved

 

Using mediation

An independent third party or mediator can sometimes help resolve disciplinary
or grievance issues. Mediation is a voluntary process where the mediator helps
two or more people in dispute to attempt to reach an agreement. Any
agreement comes from those in dispute, not from the mediator. The mediator is
not there to judge, to say one person is right and the other wrong, or to tell
those involved in the mediation what they should do. The mediator is in charge
of the process of seeking to resolve the problem but not the outcome.

Mediators may be employees trained and accredited by an external mediation
service who act as internal mediators in addition to their day jobs. Or they may
be from an external mediation provider. They can work individually or in pairs as
co-mediators.

262


--- New Page 9 ---
Page number: 9
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

There are no hard-and-fast rules for when mediation is appropriate but it can be
used:

° for conflict involving colleagues of a similar job or grade, or between a line
manager and their staff

° at any stage in the conflict as long as any ongoing formal procedures are
temporarily suspended, or where mediation is included as a stage in the
procedures themselves

* to rebuild relationships after a formal dispute has been resolved

° to address a range of issues, including relationship breakdown, personality
clashes, communication problems, bullying and harassment.

In some organisations mediation is written into formal discipline and grievance
procedures as an optional stage. Where this is not the case, it is useful to be
clear about whether the discipline and grievance procedure can be suspended if
mediation is deemed to be an appropriate method of resolving the dispute.

Grievances most obviously lend themselves to the possibility of mediation.
Managers may not always see it as appropriate to surrender their discretion in
relation to disciplinary issues where they believe a point of principle is at stake,
such as misconduct or poor performance. However, disciplinary and grievance
issues can become blurred, and the employer may prefer to tackle the
underlying relationship issues by means of mediation.

Cases unsuitable for mediation
Mediation may not be suitable if:

° used as a first resort - because people should be encouraged to speak to
each other and talk to their manager before they seek a solution via
mediation

e jit is used by a manager to avoid their managerial responsibilities

* a decision about right or wrong is needed, for example where there is
possible criminal activity

e the individual bringing a discrimination or harassment case wants it
investigated

° the parties do not have the power to settle the issue

* one side is completely intransigent and using mediation will only raise
unrealistic expectations of a positive outcome.

For more information about mediation see www.acas.org.uk/mediation and the
Acas/CIPD guide Mediation: an approach to resolving workplace issues which
can be downloaded from the website.

 

263


--- New Page 10 ---
Page number: 10
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work
Discipline: keys to handling disciplinary problems in
the workplace

Resolve discipline issues informally

Cases of minor misconduct or unsatisfactory performance are usually best dealt
with informally. A quiet word is often all that is required to improve an
employee’s conduct or performance. In some cases additional training, coaching
and advice may be what is needed. An informal approach may be particularly
helpful in small firms, where problems can be resolved quickly and
confidentially. There will be situations where matters are more serious or where
an informal approach has been tried but is not working.

If informal action does not bring about an improvement, or the misconduct or
unsatisfactory performance is considered too serious to be classed as minor,
employers should provide employees with a clear signal of their dissatisfaction
by taking formal action.

 

Discipline in practice: Example 1
A valued and generally reliable employee is late for work on a number of
occasions causing difficulty for other staff who have to provide cover.

You talk to the employee on his own and he reveals that he has recently split up
with his wife and he now has to take the children to school on the way to work.
You agree a temporary adjustment to his start and finish times and he
undertakes to make arrangements for ‘school run’ cover which solves the
problem. You decide that formal disciplinary action is not appropriate.

 

How should it be done?

Talk to the employee in private. This should be a two-way discussion, aimed at
discussing possible shortcomings in conduct or performance and encouraging
improvement. Criticism should be constructive, with the emphasis being on
finding ways for the employee to improve and for the improvement to be
sustained.

Listen to whatever the employee has to say about the issue. It may become
evident there is no problem -— if so make this clear to the employee.

Where improvement is required make sure the employee understands what
needs to be done, how their performance or conduct will be reviewed, and over
what period. It may be useful to confirm in writing what has been decided.

Be careful that any informal action does not turn into formal disciplinary action,
as this may unintentionally deny certain rights, such as the right to be
accompanied. If, during the discussion, it becomes obvious that the matter may
be more serious, the meeting should be adjourned. The employee should be told
that the matter will be continued under the formal disciplinary procedure.

Keep brief notes of any agreed informal action for reference purposes. There
should be reviews of progress over specified periods.

10

264


--- New Page 11 ---
Page number: 11
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Consider at any stage whether the use of an independent mediator may be
helpful.

 

Develop rules and procedures

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

Fairness and transparency are promoted by developing and using rules and
procedures for handling disciplinary and grievance situations. These should be
set down in writing, be specific and clear. Employees and, where appropriate,
their representatives should be involved in the development of rules and
procedures. It is also important to help employees and managers understand
what the rules and procedures are, where they can be found and how they are
to be used.

 

Rules and performance standards

Clear rules benefit employees and set standards of conduct. They also help
employers to act fairly and consistently.

Employers should also set standards of performance so that employees know
what is expected of them. This is usually done as part of an organisation’s
performance management which will involve agreeing objectives and reviewing
performance on a regular basis.

What should rules cover?

Different organisations will have different requirements but rules often cover
such matters as:

* timekeeping

° absence

e health and safety

° use of organisation facilities

° discrimination, bullying and harassment
° personal appearance

¢ the types of conduct that might be considered as ‘gross misconduct’.

 

How should rules be drawn up and communicated?

Rules are likely to be more effective if they are accepted as reasonable by those
covered by them and those who operate them. It is good practice to develop
rules in consultation with employees (and their representatives where
appropriate) and those who will have responsibility for applying them.

11

265


--- New Page 12 ---
Page number: 12
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work
Unless there are reasons why different sets of rules apply to different groups
they should apply to all employees at all levels in the organisation.

The rules should not discriminate on the grounds of age, disability, gender
reassignment, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy and maternity, race,
religion or belief, sex, or sexual orientation.

Writing down the rules helps both managers and employees know what is
expected of them. The rules should be made clear to employees. Ideally
employees should be given their own printed copy of the rules or written
information about how to access them. For example, on the organisation’s
intranet or in their personnel handbook. Employees are entitled to a written
statement of employment particulars which must include a note about
disciplinary rules and procedures. (Guidance on what the written statement must

include is provided on www.acas.org.uk.)

In a small organisation, it may be sufficient for rules to be displayed in a
prominent place. See Appendix 1 for a checklist on ‘Disciplinary rules for small

organisations’.

 

 

Clearly communicate the rules to everyone

Special attention should be paid to ensure that rules are understood by any
employees without recent experience of working life (for instance young people
new to the workld of work, or those returning to work after a lengthy break),
and by employees whose English or reading ability is limited, or who have a
disability such as visual impairment.

 

Why have a disciplinary procedure?

A disciplinary procedure is the means by which rules are observed and standards
are maintained.

The procedure should be used primarily to help and encourage employees to
improve rather than just as a way of imposing punishment. It provides a method
of dealing with any apparent shortcomings in conduct or performance and can
help an employee to become effective again. The procedure should be fair,
effective, and consistently applied.

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

Disciplinary situations include misconduct and/or poor performance. If employers
have a separate capability procedure they may prefer to address performance
issues under this procedure. If so, however, the basic principles of fairness set
out in this Code should still be followed, albeit that they may need to be
adapted.

What should disciplinary procedures contain?

When drawing up and applying procedures, employers should always bear in
mind principles of fairness. For example, employees should be informed of the
allegations against them, together with the supporting evidence, in advance of
the meeting. Employees should be given the opportunity to challenge the

12

266


--- New Page 13 ---
Page number: 13
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

allegations before decisions are reached and should be provided with a right to
appeal. Good disciplinary procedures should:

° be in writing

* be non-discriminatory

° provide for matters to be dealt with speedily

¢ allow for information to be kept confidential

° tell employees what disciplinary action might be taken

e say what levels of management have the authority to take the various
forms of disciplinary action

* require employees to be informed of the complaints against them and
supporting evidence, before a disciplinary meeting

* give employees a chance to have their say before management reaches a
decision

° provide for the right to be accompanied at disciplinary hearings

° provide that no employee is dismissed for a first breach of discipline,
except in cases of gross misconduct

* require management to investigate fully before any disciplinary action is
taken

* ensure that employees are given an explanation for any sanction and
allow employees to appeal against a decision

° apply to all employees, irrespective of their length of service or status, or
say if there are different rules for different groups, and ensure that:

— any investigatory period of suspension is with pay, and that it is clear
how pay is to be calculated during this period. (If, exceptionally,
suspension is to be without pay, this must be provided for in the
contract of employment)

— any suspension is brief, is never used as a sanction against the
employee prior to a disciplinary meeting and decision, and the
suspended employee is kept informed of progress

— the employee will be heard in good faith and that there is no
prejudgement of the issue

— where the facts are in dispute, no disciplinary penalty is imposed until
the case has been carefully investigated, and there is a reasonably
held belief that the employee committed the act in question.

13

267


--- New Page 14 ---
Page number: 14
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work
Samples of disciplinary procedures are provided at Appendix 2 and may be
adapted according to the requirements of the organisation.

Reviewing rules and procedures

Keep rules and procedures under review to make sure they are always relevant
and effective. Address any shortcomings as they arise. Employees and their
representatives should be consulted before new or additional rules are
introduced.

Training

Good training helps managers achieve positive outcomes, reducing the need for
any further disciplinary action. Those responsible for using and operating the
disciplinary rules and procedures, including managers at all levels, should be
trained for the task.

Ignoring or circumventing the procedures when dismissing an employee is likely
to have a bearing on the outcome of any subsequent employment tribunal claim.

If the organisation recognises trade unions, or there is any other form of
employee representation, it can be useful to undertake training on a joint basis -
everyone then has the same understanding and has an opportunity to work
through the procedure, clarifying any issues that might arise.

For information about suitable training see the Acas website
www.acas.org.uk/training

 

Keeping written records
What records should be kept?

The foreword to the Code of Practice advises employers to keep a written record
of any disciplinary or grievances cases they deal with.

Records should include:

* the complaint against the employee
e the employee’s defence

° findings made and actions taken

e the reason for actions taken

e whether an appeal was lodged

° the outcome of the appeal

* any grievances raised during the disciplinary procedure
* subsequent developments

* notes of any formal meetings.

14

268


--- New Page 15 ---
Page number: 15
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Records should be treated as confidential and be kept no longer than necessary
in accordance with the data protection principles set out in the Data Protection
Act 2018. This Act also gives individuals the right to request and have access to
certain personal data stored about them. See Appendix 5 for further information.

 

Copies of meeting records should be given to the employee including copies of
any formal minutes that may have been taken. In certain circumstances (for
example to protect a witness) the employer might withhold some information.

Dealing fairly with formal disciplinary action

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

Where some form of formal action is needed, what action is reasonable or
justified will depend on all the circumstances of the particular case. Employment
tribunals will take the size and resources of an employer into account when
deciding on relevant cases and it may sometimes not be practicable for all
employers to take all of the steps set out in this Code.

That said, whenever a disciplinary or grievance process is being followed it is
important to deal with issues fairly. There are a number of elements to this:

¢ Employers and employees should raise and deal with issues promptly and
should not unreasonably delay meetings, decisions or confirmation of those
decisions

¢ Employers and employees should act consistently

« Employers should carry out any necessary investigations, to establish the
facts of the case

« Employers should inform employees of the basis of the problem and give
them an opportunity to put their case in response before any decisions are
made

* Employers should allow employees to be accompanied at any formal
disciplinary or grievance meeting

« Employers should allow an employee to appeal against any formal decision
made.

 

The following pages give detailed guidance on handling formal disciplinary
issues. Always bear in mind the need for fairness when following procedures
taking account of the elements from the Acas Code of Practice reproduced
above.

Dealing with absence is only one of any number of issues where disciplinary
action may be considered. It can, however, raise particular problems and is dealt
with separately at Appendix 4 — Dealing with absence.

 

A disciplinary process can be stressful for everyone involved. Different
individuals will respond differently to stressful situations. Sometimes the
15

269


--- New Page 16 ---
Page number: 16
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

prospect of dismissal or other disciplinary sanction may cause extreme distress
and impact on a person’s mental health. Employers should consider how they
can provide support to minimise the risk of this happening.

Where there are any signs of this happening to anyone involved in the process,
employers should consider whether the process can be adjusted in some way,
such as by allowing the individual to be accompanied at a disciplinary
investigation meeting even where there is no formal right to be accompanied.

 

In some cases, it might be appropriate for an employer, with the agreement and
involvement of the individual, to seek professional medical help or guidance as
to how the disciplinary process can proceed fairly. If there are clear and
repeated signs of distress, the employer should encourage the individual to use
an employee assistance programme, where one is available, or consider
suggesting that the individual seeks advice from a GP. It is important to address
this issue early to avoid it escalating.

If someone has an existing mental health condition which they have previously
disclosed as a disability, the employer must make reasonable adjustments to the
process.

Employers may also wish to consider training to equip managers with the skills
needed to recognise the signs and symptoms of someone whose mental health
may be adversely affected by a disciplinary process.

Establishing the facts

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

It is important to carry out necessary investigations of potential disciplinary
matters without unreasonable delay to establish the facts of the case. In some
cases this will require the holding of an investigatory meeting with the employee
before proceeding to any disciplinary hearing. In others, the investigatory stage
will be the collation of evidence by the employer for use at any disciplinary
hearing.

In misconduct cases, where practicable, different people should carry out the
investigation and disciplinary hearing.

If there is an investigatory meeting this should not by itself result in any
disciplinary action. Although there is no statutory right for an employee to be
accompanied at a formal [disciplinary] investigatory meeting, such a right may
be allowed under an employer’s own procedure.

In cases where a period of suspension with pay is considered necessary, this
period should be as brief as possible, should be kept under review and it should
be made clear that this suspension is not considered a disciplinary action.

 

Investigating cases

When investigating a disciplinary matter take care to deal with the employee in a
fair and reasonable manner. The nature and extent of the investigations will
depend on the seriousness of the matter and the more serious it is then the
more thorough the investigation should be. It is important to keep an open mind
16

278


--- New Page 17 ---
Page number: 17
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

and look for evidence which supports the employee’s case as well as evidence
against.

It is not always necessary to hold an investigatory meeting (often called a fact
finding meeting). If a meeting is held, give the employee advance notice of it
and time to prepare.

Any investigatory meeting should be conducted by a management
representative and should be confined to establishing the facts of the case. It is
important that disciplinary action is not considered at an investigatory meeting.
If it becomes apparent that formal disciplinary action may be needed then this
should be dealt with at a formal hearing at which the statutory right to be
accompanied will apply. See also ‘Use of external consultants’.

Further guidance on investigating disciplinary matters is available in the Acas
guide on Conducting Investigations in the Workplace
www.acas.org.uk/investigations

 

Suspension

There may be instances where the suspension of an employee is necessary while
investigations are carried out.

Employees must always receive their full pay and benefits during a period of
suspension unless there is a clear contractual right for an employer to suspend
without pay or benefits. Disciplinary procedures should specify how pay is to be
calculated during any period of suspension.

Employers should seek advice if they are considering suspension without pay. A
period of unpaid suspension is more likely to be viewed as a disciplinary sanction
and could lead to accusations that the disciplinary procedure was not fair.

Suspension should be kept as brief as possible and should not exceed any
maximum period which may be set out in the contract. If suspension is
unreasonably prolonged it may then be open to the worker to take action for
breach of contract, or in extreme cases to resign and claim constructive
dismissal. Suspension should be reviewed regularly to decide whether it is still
necessary and the suspended employee kept informed of progress.

Most disciplinary situations will not require suspension. It should only be
considered exceptionally if there is a serious allegation of misconduct and:

° there are reasonable grounds to believe that the employee might seek to
tamper with or destroy evidence, influence witnesses and/or sway an
investigation into the disciplinary allegation; or

17

271


--- New Page 18 ---
Page number: 18
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

* working relationships have severely broken down to the point that there is
a genuine risk to other employees, property, customers or other business
interests if the employee remains in the workplace; or

° the employee is the subject of criminal proceedings which may affect
whether they can do their job.

Suspension can leave individuals feeling prejudged, demotivated and devalued.
It should therefore only be used after very careful consideration. It should
always be made very clear that suspension is not an assumption of guilt and is
not considered a disciplinary sanction. The individual should be reminded and
reassured that a fair procedure will follow in which their point of view will be
listened to and fairly considered.

Some individuals may find it extremely distressing to be told they are being
suspended. This may be the case even if the person does not show any obvious
signs of distress. Employers should bear this in mind in deciding when and how
to communicate a decision about suspension. It is good practice to encourage a
suspended employee to access some immediate support and to offer help to do
this. For example, to offer to contact a colleague, friend or relative of their
choosing to meet them immediately.

Further guidance on suspension is available on the Acas website
www.acas.org.uk/suspension

 

Informing the employee

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

If it is decided that there is a disciplinary case to answer, the employee should
be notified of this in writing. This notification should contain sufficient
information about the alleged misconduct or poor performance and its possible
consequences to enable the employee to prepare to answer the case ata
disciplinary meeting.

It would normally be appropriate to provide copies of any written evidence,
which may include any witness statements, with the notification. The notification
should also give details of the time and venue for the disciplinary meeting and
advise of the right to be accompanied at the meeting.

 

As well notifying the nature of the complaint and the right to be accompanied
the employee should also be told about the procedure to be followed. A sample
letter inviting an employee to a meeting is at Appendix 3.

 

 

Holding a disciplinary meeting

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

18

272


--- New Page 19 ---
Page number: 19
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

The meeting should be held without unreasonable delay whilst allowing the
employee reasonable time to prepare their case.

Employers and employees (and their companions) should make every effort to
attend the meeting. At the meeting the employer should explain the complaint
against the employee and go through the evidence that has been gathered. The
employee should be allowed to set out their case and answer any allegations
that have been made. The employee should also be given a reasonable
opportunity to ask questions, present evidence and call relevant witnesses. They
should also be given an opportunity to raise points about any information
provided by witnesses. Where an employer or employee intends to call relevant
witnesses they should give advance notice that they intend to do this.

 

Preparing for the meeting

You should:

¢ ensure that all the relevant facts are available, such as disciplinary records
and any other relevant documents (for instance absence or sickness
records) and, where appropriate, written statements from witnesses

e where possible arrange for someone who is not involved in the case to
take a note of the meeting and to act as a witness to what was said

e check if there are any special circumstances to be taken into account. For
example, are there personal or other outside issues affecting performance
or conduct?

¢ allow the employee time to prepare his or her case. Copies of any relevant
papers and all witness statements should be made available to the
employee in advance

° be careful when dealing with evidence from a person who wishes to
remain anonymous. In particular, take written statements that give details
of time/place/dates as appropriate, seek corroborative evidence, check
that the person’s motives are genuine and assess the credibility and
weight to be attached to their evidence

* consider what explanations may be offered by the employee, and if
possible check them out beforehand

e if the employee concerned is a trade union representative discuss the case
with a trade union full-time official after obtaining the employee’s
agreement. This is because the action may be seen as an attack on the
union

* arrange a time for the meeting, which should be held as privately as
possible, in a suitable room, and where there will be no interruptions. The
employee may offer a reasonable alternative time, normally within five

19

273


--- New Page 20 ---
Page number: 20
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

working days of the original date, if their chosen companion cannot
attend. You may also arrange another meeting if an employee fails to
attend through circumstances outside their control, such as illness

 

° try and get a written statement from any witness from outside the
organisation who is not prepared to or is unable to attend the meeting

° allow the employee to call witnesses or submit witness statements

* consider the provision of an interpreter or facilitator if there are
understanding or language difficulties (perhaps a friend of the employee,
or a co-employee). This person may need to attend in addition to the
companion though ideally one person should carry out both roles

* make provision for any reasonable adjustments to accommodate the
needs of a person with a disability

e think about the structure of the meeting and make a list of points you will
wish to cover.

What if an employee repeatedly fails to attend a meeting?

There may be occasions when an employee is repeatedly unable or unwilling to
attend a meeting. This may be for various reasons, including genuine illness or a
refusal to face up to the issue. Employers will need to consider all the facts and
come to a reasonable decision on how to proceed. Considerations may include:

* any rules the organisation has for dealing with failure to attend
disciplinary meetings

e the seriousness of the disciplinary issue under consideration

° the employee’s disciplinary record (including current warnings), general

work record, work experience, position and length of service * medical
opinion on whether the employee is fit to attend the meeting

° how similar cases in the past have been dealt with.

Where an employee continues to be unavailable to attend a meeting the
employer may conclude that a decision will need to be made on the evidence
available. The employee should be informed where this is to be the case. See
also Appendix 4 ‘Dealing with absence’.

 

How should the disciplinary meeting be conducted?

Remember that the point of the meeting is to establish the facts, not catch
people out. The meetings may not proceed in neat, orderly stages but it is good
practice to:

e introduce those present to the employee and explain why they are there

20

274


--- New Page 21 ---
Page number: 21
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

e introduce and explain the role of the accompanying person if present

° explain that the purpose of the meeting is to consider whether disciplinary
action should be taken in accordance with the organisation’s disciplinary
procedure

* explain how the meeting will be conducted.

Statement of the complaint

State precisely what the complaint is and outline the case briefly by going
through the evidence that has been gathered. Ensure that the employee and
their representative or accompanying person are allowed to see any statements
made by witnesses and to question them.

Employee's reply

Give the employee the opportunity to state their case and answer any
allegations that have been made. They should be able to ask questions, present
evidence and call witnesses. The accompanying person may also ask questions
and should be able to confer privately with the employee. Listen carefully and be
prepared to wait in silence for an answer as this can be a constructive way of
encouraging the employee to be more forthcoming.

Establish whether the employee is prepared to accept that they may have done
something wrong or are not performing to the required standard. Then agree the
steps which should be taken to remedy the situation.

If it is not practical for witnesses to attend, consider proceeding if it is clear that
their verbal evidence will not affect the substance of the complaint. Alternatively,
consider an adjournment to allow questions to be put to a witness who cannot
attend in person but who has submitted a witness statement.

General questioning and discussion

You should:

° use this stage to establish all the facts

* ask the employee if they have any explanation for the alleged misconduct
or unsatisfactory performance, or if there are any special circumstances to
be taken into account

° if it becomes clear during this stage that the employee has provided an
adequate explanation or there is no real evidence to support the
allegation, bring the proceedings to a close

° keep the approach formal and polite and encourage the employee to
speak freely with a view to establishing the facts. A properly conducted
disciplinary meeting should be a two-way process. Use questions to clarify
the issues and to check that what has been said is understood. Ask

21

275


--- New Page 22 ---
Page number: 22
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

openended questions, for example, ‘what happened then?’ to get the
broad picture. Ask precise, closed questions requiring a yes/no answer
only when specific information is needed

¢ do not get involved in arguments and do not make personal or humiliating
remarks. Avoid physical contact or gestures which could be misinterpreted
or misconstrued as judgemental.

If new facts emerge, it may be necessary to adjourn the meeting to investigate
them and reconvene the meeting when this has been done.

Summing up

Summarise the main points of the discussion after questioning is completed. This
allows all parties to be reminded of the nature of the offence, the arguments and
evidence put forward and to ensure nothing is missed. Ask the employee if they
have anything further to say. This should help to demonstrate to the employee
that they have been treated reasonably.

Adjournment before decision

Adjourn before a decision is taken about whether a disciplinary penalty is
appropriate. This allows time for reflection and proper consideration. It also
allows for any further checking of any matters raised, particularly if there is any
dispute over facts.

What problems may arise and how should they be handled?

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

Where an employee raises a grievance during a disciplinary process the
disciplinary process may be temporarily suspended in order to deal with the
grievance. Where the grievance and disciplinary cases are related, it may be
appropriate to deal with both issues concurrently.

 

When an employee raises a grievance during the meeting it may sometimes be
appropriate to consider stopping the meeting and suspending the disciplinary
procedure - for example when:

° the grievance relates to a conflict of interest that the manager holding the
disciplinary meeting is alleged to have

° bias is alleged in the conduct of the disciplinary meeting

* management have been selective in the evidence they have supplied to
the manager holding the meeting

e there is possible discrimination.

22

276


--- New Page 23 ---
Page number: 23
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

It would not be appropriate to suspend the meeting where the employee makes
an invalid point. For example if they mistakenly claim that they have the right to
be legally represented or that a collectively agreed and applicable procedure
does not apply to them because they are not a union member.

It is possible that the disciplinary meeting may not proceed smoothly - people
may be upset or angry. If the employee becomes upset or distressed allow time
for them to regain composure before continuing. If the distress is too great to
continue then adjourn and reconvene at a later date — however, the issues
should not be avoided. Clearly during the meeting there may be some ‘letting off
steam’, and this can be helpful in finding out what has actually happened.
However, abusive language or conduct should not be tolerated.

Allowing a worker to be accompanied

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

Workers have a statutory right to be accompanied by a companion where the
disciplinary meeting could result in:

* a formal warning being issued; or
« the taking of some other disciplinary action; or

e the confirmation of a warning or some other disciplinary action (appeal
hearings).

The statutory right is to be accompanied by a fellow worker, a trade union
representative, or an official employed by a trade union. A trade union
representative who is not an employed official must have been certified by their
union as being competent to accompany a worker. Employers must agree to a
worker’s request to be accompanied by any companion from one of these
categories. Workers may also alter their choice of companion if they wish. As a
matter of good practice, in making their choice workers should bear in mind the
practicalities of the arrangements. For instance, a worker may choose to be
accompanied by a companion who is suitable, willing and available on site rather
than someone from a geographically remote location.

To exercise the statutory right to be accompanied workers must make a
reasonable request. What is reasonable will depend on the circumstances of each
individual case. A request to be accompanied does not have to be in writing or
within a certain timeframe. However, a worker should provide enough time for
the employer to deal with the companion’s attendance at the meeting. Workers
should also consider how they make their request so that it is clearly
understood, for instance by letting the employer know in advance the name of
the companion where possible and whether they are a fellow worker or trade
union official or representative.

If a worker’s chosen companion will not be available at the time proposed for the
hearing by the employer, the employer must postpone the hearing to a time
proposed by the worker provided that the alternative time is both reasonable
and not more than five working days after the date originally proposed.

23

277


--- New Page 24 ---
Page number: 24
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

The companion should be allowed to address the hearing to put and sum up the
workers case, respond on behalf of the worker to any views expressed at the
meeting and confer with the worker during the hearing. The companion does
not, however, have the right to answer questions on the worker’s behalf,
address the hearing if the worker does not wish it or prevent the employer from
explaining their case.

 

What is the right to be accompanied?

Workers have a statutory right to be accompanied where they are required or
invited by their employer to attend certain disciplinary meetings. The chosen
companion may be a fellow worker, a trade union representative, or an official
employed by a trade union. A trade union representative who is not an employed
official must have been certified by their union as being competent to
accompany a worker. Workers must make a reasonable request to their
employer to be accompanied.

When does the right apply?

Workers have the right to be accompanied at disciplinary hearings that could
result in:

* a formal warning being issued to a worker (ie a warning that will be
placed on the worker’s record)

° the taking of some other disciplinary action (such as suspension without
pay, demotion or dismissal) or other action

° the confirmation of a warning or some other disciplinary action (ie
following an appeal hearing).

Informal discussions, counselling sessions or disciplinary investigatory meetings
do not attract the right to be accompanied. Meetings to investigate a disciplinary
issue are not disciplinary hearings. If it becomes apparent that formal
disciplinary action may be needed then this should be dealt with at a formal
hearing at which the statutory right to be accompanied will apply.

What is a reasonable request?

Whether a request for a companion is reasonable will depend on the
circumstances of the individual case and, ultimately, it is a matter for the courts
and tribunals to decide if disputed. However, a worker should provide enough
time for the employer to deal with the companion’s attendance at the meeting.

Workers should also consider how they make their request so that it is clearly
understood, for instance by letting the employer know in advance the name of
the companion where possible and whether they are a fellow worker or trade
union official or representative.

24

278


--- New Page 25 ---
Page number: 25
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

The companion

The companion may be:

° a fellow worker (i.e. another of the employer’s workers)
° an official employed by a trade union

* aworkplace trade union representative, as long as they have been
reasonably certified in writing by their union as having experience of, or
having received training in, acting as a worker’s companion at disciplinary
or grievance hearings. Certification may take the form of a card or letter.

Employers are free, but are not obliged, to allow workers to be accompanied by
a companion who does not fall within the above categories. Some workers may
have a contractual right to be accompanied by persons other than those listed
above (for instance a professional support body, partner, spouse or legal
representative).

Reasonable adjustment may be needed for a worker with a disability (and
possibly for their companion if they are disabled). For example the provision of a
support worker or advocate with knowledge of the disability and its effects.

Workers may ask an official from any trade union to accompany them at a
disciplinary or grievance hearing, regardless of whether or not they are a
member or the union is recognised.

Fellow workers or trade union officials do not have to accept a request to
accompany a worker, and they should not be pressurised to do so.

Trade unions should ensure that their officials are trained in the role of acting as
a worker's companion. Even when a trade union official has experience of acting
in the role, there may still be a need for periodic refresher training. Employers
should consider allowing time off for this training.

A worker who has agreed to accompany a colleague employed by the same
employer is entitled to take a reasonable amount of paid time off to fulfil that
responsibility. This should cover the hearing and it is also good practice to allow
time for the companion to familiarise themselves with the case and confer with
the worker before and after the hearing.

A lay trade union official is permitted to take a reasonable amount of paid time
off to accompany a worker at a hearing, as long as the worker is employed by
the same employer. In cases where a lay official agrees to accompany a worker
employed by another organisation, time off is a matter for agreement by the
parties concerned.

Applying the right

The employer should allow a companion to have a say about the date and time
of a hearing. If the companion cannot attend on a proposed date, the law on the
right of accompaniment provides that the worker has a right to suggest an

25

279


--- New Page 26 ---
Page number: 26
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

alternative time and date so long as it is reasonable and it is not more than five
working days after the original date.

Employers may, however, wish to allow more time than this for a re-arranged
meeting, particularly in cases that might result in dismissal. An employer must
always act fairly in order to avoid a finding of unfair dismissal. Where there is a
request to postpone a hearing for more than five working days because a trade
union representative or other companion is not available, it may be fair to allow
the postponement if it does not cause unreasonable delay. The employer should
consider the facts and decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.

Before the hearing takes place, the worker should tell the employer who they
have chosen as a companion. In certain circumstances (for instance when the
companion is an official of a non-recognised trade union) it can be helpful for the
companion and employer to make contact before the hearing.

The companion must be allowed to address the hearing in order to:

e put the worker’s case
* sum up the worker’s case

* respond on the worker’s behalf to any view expressed at the hearing.

The companion must also be allowed to confer with the worker during the
hearing. It is good practice to allow the companion to participate as fully as
possible in the hearing, including asking witnesses questions. The employer is,
however, not legally required to permit the companion to answer questions on
the worker’s behalf, or to address the hearing if the worker does not wish it, or
to prevent the employer from explaining their case.

Workers whose employers fail to comply with a reasonable request to be
accompanied may present a complaint to an employment tribunal. Workers may
also complain to a tribunal if employers fail to re-arrange a hearing to a
reasonable date proposed by the worker when a companion cannot attend on
the date originally proposed.

It is unlawful to disadvantage workers for using their right to be accompanied or
for being companions. This could lead to a claim to an employment tribunal.

Taking action after the disciplinary meeting

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

After the meeting decide whether or not disciplinary or any other action is
justified and inform the employee accordingly in writing.

Where misconduct is confirmed or the employee is found to be performing
unsatisfactorily it is usual to give the employee a written warning. A further act
of misconduct or failure to improve performance within a set period would
normally result in a final written warning.

26

288


--- New Page 27 ---
Page number: 27
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

If an employee’s first misconduct or unsatisfactory performance is sufficiently
serious, it may be appropriate to move directly to a final written warning. This
might occur where the employee’s actions have had, or are liable to have, a
serious or harmful impact on the organisation.

A first or final written warning should set out the nature of the misconduct or
poor performance and the change in behaviour or improvement in performance
required (with timescale). The employee should be told how long the warning
will remain current. The employee should be informed of the consequences of
further misconduct, or failure to improve performance, within the set period
following a final warning. For instance that it may result in dismissal or some
other contractual penalty such as demotion or loss of seniority.

A decision to dismiss should only be taken by a manager who has the authority
to do so. The employee should be informed as soon as possible of the reasons
for the dismissal, the date on which the employment contract will end, the
appropriate period of notice and their right of appeal.

Some acts, termed gross misconduct, are so serious in themselves or have such
serious consequences that they may call for dismissal without notice for a first
offence. But a fair disciplinary process should always be followed before
dismissing for gross misconduct.

Disciplinary rules should give examples of acts which the employer regards as
acts of gross misconduct. These may vary according to the nature of the
organisation and what it does, but might include things such as theft or fraud,
physical violence, gross negligence or serious insubordination.

Where an employee is persistently unable or unwilling to attend a disciplinary
meeting without good cause the employer should make a decision on the
evidence available.

 

What should be considered before deciding any disciplinary penalty?

When deciding whether a disciplinary penalty is appropriate and what form it
should take, consideration should be given to:

°¢ whether the rules of the organisation indicate what the likely penalty will
be as a result of the particular misconduct

e the penalty imposed in similar cases in the past

e whether standards of other employees are acceptable, and that this
employee is not being unfairly singled out

° the employee’s disciplinary record (including current warnings), general
work record, work experience, position and length of service

* any special circumstances which might make it appropriate to adjust the
severity of the penalty

° whether the proposed penalty is reasonable in view of all the
circumstances

27

281


--- New Page 28 ---
Page number: 28
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

¢ whether any training, additional support or adjustments to the employee’s
work are necessary.

It should be clear what the normal organisational practice is for dealing with the
kind of misconduct or unsatisfactory performance under consideration. This does
not mean that similar offences will always call for the same disciplinary action:
each case must be looked at on its own merits and any relevant circumstances
taken into account. Such relevant circumstances may include health or domestic
problems, provocation, justifiable ignorance of the rule or standard involved, or
inconsistent treatment in the past.

If guidance is needed on formal disciplinary action, seek advice, where possible,
from someone who will not be involved in hearing any potential appeal. Call the
Acas helpline on 0300 123 1100 (Open Monday - Friday 8am-6pm) to talk to
one of our advisers.

Imposing the disciplinary penalty
First formal action — unsatisfactory performance

In cases of unsatisfactory performance an employee should be given an
‘improvement note’, setting out:

e the performance problem

e the improvement that is required

° the timescale for achieving this improvement
* areview date

* any support, including any training, that the employer will provide to
assist the employee.

The employee should be informed that the note represents the first stage of a

formal procedure and is equivalent to a first written warning and that failure to
improve could lead to a final written warning and, ultimately, dismissal. A copy
of the note should be kept and used as the basis for monitoring and reviewing

performance over a specified period (eg, six months).

If an employee’s unsatisfactory performance - or its continuance - is sufficiently
serious, for example because it is having, or is likely to have, a serious harmful
effect on the organisation, it may be justifiable to move directly to a final written
warning.

 

Discipline in practice: Example 2

A member of staff in accounts makes a number of mistakes on invoices to
customers. You bring the mistakes to his attention, make sure he has had the
right training and impress on him the need for accuracy, but the mistakes
continue. You invite him to a disciplinary meeting and inform him of his right to
be accompanied by a colleague or employee representative. At the meeting he

28

282


--- New Page 29 ---
Page number: 29
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

does not give a satisfactory explanation for the mistakes so you decide to issue
an improvement note setting out: the problem, the improvement required, the

timescale for improvement, the support available and a review date. You inform
him that a failure to improve may lead to a final written warning.

 

First formal action — misconduct

In cases of misconduct, employees should be given a written warning setting out
the nature of the misconduct and the change in behaviour required.

The warning should also inform the employee that a final written warning may
be considered if there is further misconduct. A record of the warning should be
kept, but it should be disregarded for disciplinary purposes after a specified
period (eg, six months).

 

Discipline in practice: Example 3
An employee in a small firm makes a series of promises in letters to one of your
key customers guaranteeing impossible delivery dates. The customer is upset at

your firm’s failure to meet delivery dates and threatens to take his business
elsewhere.

You are the owner of the business and carry out an investigation and invite the
employee to a disciplinary meeting. You inform her of her right to be
accompanied by a colleague or employee representative.

Example outcome of meeting

At the meeting the employee does not give a satisfactory explanation for the
promises made and admits that her training covered the importance of agreeing
realistic delivery dates with her manager. During your investigation, her team
leader and section manager told you they had stressed to the employee the
importance of agreeing delivery dates with them before informing the customer.
In view of the seriousness of the conduct and the possible impact on the
business, you issue the employee with a final written warning. You inform the
employee that a repeat of such conduct may lead to dismissal and of her right to
appeal.

Example outcome of meeting in different circumstances

At the meeting, the employee reveals that her team leader would not let her
attend training as the section was too busy. Subsequently the team leader was
absent sick and the employee asked the section manager for help with setting
delivery dates. The manager said he was too busy and told the employee to ‘use
her initiative’. Your other investigations support the employee’s explanation. You
inform the employee that you will not be taking disciplinary action and will make
arrangements for her to be properly trained. You decide to carry out a review of
general management standards on supervision and training.

 

Final written warning

If the employee has a current warning about conduct or performance then
further misconduct or unsatisfactory performance (whichever is relevant) may

29

283


--- New Page 30 ---
Page number: 30
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

warrant a final written warning. This may also be the case where ‘first offence’
misconduct is sufficiently serious, but would not justify dismissal. Such a
warning should normally remain current for a specified period, for example, 12
months, and contain a statement that further misconduct or unsatisfactory
performance may lead to dismissal.

Dismissal or other sanction

If the employee has received a final written warning, further misconduct or
unsatisfactory performance may warrant dismissal. Alternatively the contract
may allow for a different disciplinary penalty instead. Such a penalty may
include disciplinary transfer, disciplinary suspension without pay (although see
the considerations on suspension), demotion, loss of seniority or loss of
increment. These sanctions may only be applied if allowed for in the employee’s
contract or with the employee’s agreement.

 

Any penalty should be confirmed in writing, and the procedure and time limits
for appeal set out clearly.

There may be occasions when, depending on the seriousness of the misconduct
involved, it will be appropriate to consider dismissal without notice (see below).

Dismissal with notice

Employees should only be dismissed if, despite warnings, conduct or
performance does not improve to the required level within the specified time
period. Dismissal must be reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.

Unless the employee is being dismissed for reasons of gross misconduct, he or
she should receive the appropriate period of notice or payment in lieu of notice.

Dismissal without notice

Employers should give all employees a clear indication of the type of misconduct
which, in the light of the requirements of the employer’s business, will warrant
dismissal without the normal period of notice or pay in lieu of notice. So far as
possible the types of offences which fall into this category of ‘gross misconduct’
should be clearly specified in the rules, although such a list cannot normally be
exhaustive.

What is gross misconduct?

Gross misconduct is generally seen as misconduct serious enough to overturn
the contract between the employer and the employee thus justifying summary
dismissal. Acts which constitute gross misconduct must be very serious and are
best determined by organisations in the light of their own particular
circumstances. However, examples of gross misconduct might include:

e theft or fraud

° physical violence or bullying

30

284


--- New Page 31 ---
Page number: 31
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

e deliberate and serious damage to property
* serious misuse of an organisation’s property or name

e deliberately accessing internet sites containing pornographic, offensive or
obscene material

* serious insubordination

° unlawful discrimination or harassment

° bringing the organisation into serious disrepute

* serious incapability at work brought on by alcohol or illegal drugs
* causing loss, damage or injury through serious negligence

° serious breach of health and safety rules

° aserious breach of confidence.

If an employer considers an employee guilty of gross misconduct and thus liable
for summary dismissal, it is still important to follow a fair procedure as for any
other disciplinary offence. This will include establishing the facts of the case
before taking any action, holding a meeting with the employee and allowing the
employee the right of appeal. It should be made clear to the employee that
dismissal is a possibility.

A short period of suspension with full pay to help establish the facts or to allow
tempers to cool may be helpful. However, such a period of suspension should
only be imposed after careful consideration and should be kept under review. It
should be made clear to the employee that the suspension is not a disciplinary
action and does not involve any prejudgement.

 

 

Discipline in practice: Example 4

A member of your telephone sales team has been to lunch to celebrate success
in an exam. He returns from lunch in a very merry mood, is slurring his speech
and is evidently not fit to carry out his duties. You decide to send him home and
invite him in writing to a disciplinary meeting setting out his alleged behaviour of
gross misconduct for which he could be dismissed. Your letter includes
information about his right to be accompanied by a colleague or employee
representative.

At the meeting he admits he had too much to drink, is very apologetic and
promises that such a thing will not happen again. He is one of your most valued
members of staff and has an exemplary record over his 10 years’ service with
you. You know that being unfit for work because of excessive alcohol is listed in
your company rules as gross misconduct. In view of the circumstances and the
employee’s record, however, you decide not to dismiss him but give him a final
written warning. You inform the employee of his right to appeal.

 

31

285


--- New Page 32 ---
Page number: 32
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

How should the employee be informed of the disciplinary decision?

Details of any disciplinary action should be given in writing to the employee as
soon as the decision is made. See example letters at Appendix 3. A copy of the
notification should be retained by the employer. The written notification should
specify:

 

e the nature of the misconduct

* any period of time given for improvement and the improvement expected
e the disciplinary penalty and, where appropriate, how long it will last

° the likely consequences of further misconduct

° the timescale for lodging an appeal and how it should be made.

The organisation may wish to require the employee to acknowledge receipt of
the written notification.

Written reasons for dismissal

Employees with two years’ service or more have the right to request a ‘written
statement of reasons for dismissal’. Employers are required by law to comply
within 14 days of the request being made, unless it is not reasonably
practicable. It is good practice to give written reasons for all dismissals.

A woman who is dismissed during pregnancy or maternity or adoption leave is
automatically entitled to the written statement without having to request it and
irrespective of length of service.

The written statement can be used in evidence in any subsequent employment
tribunal proceedings, for example, in relation to a complaint of unfair dismissal.

Time limits for warnings

Except in agreed special circumstances, any disciplinary action taken should be
disregarded for disciplinary purposes after a specified period of satisfactory
conduct or performance. This period should be established clearly when the
disciplinary procedure is being drawn up. A decision to dismiss should not be
based on an expired warning but the fact that there is an expired warning may
explain why the employer does not substitute a lesser sanction.

Normal practice is for different types of warnings to remain in force for different
periods. For example, a first written warning might be valid for up to six months
while a final written warning may remain in force for 12 months (or more in
exceptional circumstances). Warnings should cease to be ‘live’ following the
specified period of satisfactory conduct.

There may be occasions where an employee’s conduct is satisfactory throughout
the period the warning is in force, only to lapse very soon thereafter. Where a

32

286


--- New Page 33 ---
Page number: 33
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

pattern emerges and/or there is evidence of abuse, the employee’s disciplinary
record should be borne in mind in deciding how long any warning should last.

Provide employees with an opportunity to appeal

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

Where an employee feels that disciplinary action taken against them is wrong or
unjust they should appeal against the decision. Appeals should be heard without
unreasonable delay and ideally at an agreed time and place. Employees should
let employers know the grounds for their appeal in writing.

The appeal should be dealt with impartially and, wherever possible, by a
manager who has not previously been involved in the case.

Workers have a statutory right to be accompanied at appeal hearings.

Employees should be informed in writing of the results of the appeal hearing as
soon as possible.

 

The opportunity to appeal against a disciplinary decision is essential to natural
justice. Appeals may be raised by employees on any number of grounds, for
instance new evidence, undue severity or inconsistency of the penalty. The
appeal may either be a review of the disciplinary sanction or a re-hearing,
depending on the grounds of the appeal.

An appeal must never be used as an opportunity to punish the employee for
appealing the original decision, and it should not result in any increase in penalty
as this may deter individuals from appealing.

What should an appeals procedure contain?

It should:

° specify a time-limit within which the appeal should be lodged (five working
days is commonly felt appropriate although this may be extended in
particular circumstances)

° provide for appeals to be dealt with speedily, particularly those involving
suspension or dismissal

e wherever possible provide for the appeal to be heard by someone senior
in authority to the person who took the disciplinary decision and, if
possible, someone who was not involved in the original meeting or
decision

° spell out what action may be taken by those hearing the appeal

° set out the right to be accompanied at any appeal meeting

33

287


--- New Page 34 ---
Page number: 34
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

° provide that the employee, or a companion if the employee so wishes, has
an opportunity to comment on any new evidence arising during the appeal
before any decision is taken.

 

Small organisations

In small organisations, even if there is no more senior manager available,
another manager should, if possible, hear the appeal. If this is not possible
consider whether the owner or, in the case of a charity, the board of trustees,
should hear the appeal. Whoever hears the appeal should consider it impartially.

How should an appeal hearing be conducted? Before the appeal ensure that the
individual knows when and where it is to be held, and of their statutory right to
be accompanied. Hold the meeting in a place which will be free from
interruptions. Make sure the relevant records and notes of the original meeting
are available for all concerned. See sample letters at Appendix 3.

 

 

At the meeting

You should:

e introduce those present to each other, explaining their presence if
necessary

° explain the purpose of the meeting, how it will be conducted, and the
powers the person/people hearing the appeal have

° ask the employee why he or she is appealing

° pay particular attention to any new evidence that has been introduced,
and ensure the employee has the opportunity to comment on it

* once the relevant issues have been thoroughly explored, summarise the
facts and call an adjournment to consider the decision

e change a previous decision if it becomes apparent that it was not soundly
based —- such action does not undermine authority but rather makes clear
the independent nature of the appeal. If the decision is overturned
consider whether training for managers needs to be improved, if rules
need clarification, or if there are other implications to be considered

° inform the employee of the results of the appeal and the reasons for the
decision and confirm it in writing. Make it clear, if this is the case, that this
decision is final. See sample letters at Appendix 3.

 

Dealing with special cases

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

34

288


--- New Page 35 ---
Page number: 35
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Where disciplinary action is being considered against an employee who is a trade
union representative the normal disciplinary procedure should be followed.
Depending on the circumstances, however, it is advisable to discuss the matter
at an early stage with an official employed by the union, after obtaining the
employee’s agreement.

If an employee is charged with, or convicted of a criminal offence this is not
normally in itself reason for disciplinary action. Consideration needs to be given
to what effect the charge or conviction has on the employee’s suitability to do
the job and their relationship with their employer, work colleagues and
customers.

 

Trade union officials

Although normal disciplinary standards apply to their conduct as employees,
disciplinary action against a trade union representative can be construed as an
attack on the union if not handled carefully (see Preparing for the meeting).

 

Criminal charges or convictions

An employee should not be dismissed or otherwise disciplined solely because he
or she has been charged with or convicted of a criminal offence. The question to
be asked in such cases is whether the employee’s conduct or conviction merits
action because of its employment implications.

Where it is thought the conduct may warrant disciplinary action the following
guidance should be borne in mind:

° the employer should investigate the facts as far as possible, come to a
view about them and consider whether the conduct is sufficiently serious
to warrant instituting the disciplinary procedure

e where the conduct requires prompt attention the employer need not await
the outcome of the criminal prosecution before taking fair and reasonable
action

e where the police are called in they should not be asked to conduct any
investigation on behalf of the employer, nor should they be present at any
meeting or disciplinary meeting.

In some cases the nature of the alleged offence may not justify disciplinary
action — for example, off-duty conduct which has no bearing on employment -
but the employee may not be available for work because he or she is in custody
or on remand. In these cases employers should decide whether, in the light of
the needs of the organisation, the employee’s job can be held open. Where a
criminal conviction leads, for example, to the loss of a licence so that continued
employment in a particular job would be illegal, employers should consider
whether alternative work is appropriate and available.

Where an employee, charged with or convicted of a criminal offence, refuses or
is unable to cooperate with the employer’s disciplinary investigations and

35

289


--- New Page 36 ---
Page number: 36
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

proceedings, this should not deter an employer from taking action. The
employee should be advised in writing that unless further information is
provided, a disciplinary decision will be taken on the basis of the information
available and could result in dismissal.

Where there is little likelihood of an employee returning to employment, it may
be argued that the contract of employment has been terminated through
‘frustration’. In law, frustration occurs when, without the fault of either party,
some event, which was not reasonably foreseeable at the time of the contract,
renders future performance of the contract either impossible or something
radically different from what was contemplated originally. This is normally
accepted by the courts only where the frustrating event renders all performance
of the employment contract clearly impossible. Legal advice should be sought if
it is thought frustration of the employment contract has occurred. It is normally
better for the employer to take disciplinary action.

An employee who has been charged with, or convicted of, a criminal offence may
become unacceptable to colleagues, resulting in workforce pressure to dismiss or
even threats of industrial action. Employers should bear in mind that they may
have to justify the reasonableness of any decision to dismiss and that an
employment tribunal will ignore threats of, and actual, industrial action when
determining the fairness of a decision (Section 107, Employment Rights Act
1996). Employers should consider all relevant factors, not just disruption to
production, before reaching a reasonable decision.

Use of external consultants

In some instances employers may wish to bring in external consultants to carry
out an investigation. Employers will still be responsible for any inappropriate or
discriminatory behaviour if the investigation is carried out by consultants. Make
arrangements for the investigation to be overseen by a representative of
management. Make sure that the consultants follow the organisation’s
disciplinary policies and procedures and deal with the case fairly in accordance
with the Acas Code of Practice.

Employees to whom the full procedure is not immediately available

It may be sensible to arrange time off with pay so that employees who are in
isolated locations or on nightshifts can attend a disciplinary meeting on the main
site in normal working hours. Alternatively, if a number of witnesses need to
attend it may be better to hold the disciplinary meeting on the nightshift or at
the particular location.

36

298


--- New Page 37 ---
Page number: 37
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Grievances: keys to handling grievances in the
workplace

Resolve grievances informally

In organisations where managers have an open policy for communication and
consultation, problems and concerns are often raised and settled as a matter of
course.

Employees should aim to settle most grievances informally with their line
manager. Many problems can be raised and settled during the course of
everyday working relationships. This also allows for problems to be settled
quickly.

In cases where the line manager is the subject of the grievance, individuals
should be able to discuss their concerns with another manager or another
appropriate person.

In some cases outside help such as an independent mediator can help resolve
problems especially those involving working relationships.

 

Developing rules and procedures

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

Fairness and transparency are promoted by developing and using rules and
procedures for handling disciplinary and grievance situations. These should be
set down in writing, be specific and clear. Employees and, where appropriate,
their representatives should be involved in the development of rules and
procedures. It is also important to help employees and managers understand
what the rules and procedures are, where they can be found and how they are
to be used.

 

What is a grievance and why have a procedure?

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

Grievances are concerns, problems or complaints that employees raise with their
employers.

 

Anybody working in an organisation may, at some time, have problems or
concerns about their work, working conditions or relationships with colleagues
that they wish to talk about with management. They want the grievance to be
addressed, and if possible, resolved.

37

291


--- New Page 38 ---
Page number: 38
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

It is also clearly in management’s interests to resolve problems before they can
develop into major difficulties for all concerned.

Issues that may cause grievances include:

* terms and conditions of employment
e health and safety

° work relations

° bullying and harassment

* new working practices

° working environment

* organisational change

° discrimination.

Grievances may occur at all levels and the Acas Code of Practice, and this
guidance, applies equally to management and employees.

A written procedure can help clarify the process and help to ensure that
employees are aware of their rights such as to be accompanied at grievance
meetings. Some organisations use, or may wish to use, external mediators to
help resolve grievances. Where this is the case the procedure should explain how
and when mediators may be used.

 

 

Employees might raise issues about matters not entirely within the control of the
organisation, such as client or customer relationships (for instance where an
employee is working on another employer's site). These should be treated in the
same way as grievances within the organisation, with the employer/manager
investigating as far as possible and taking action if required. The organisation
should make it very clear to any third party that grievances are taken seriously
and action will be taken to protect their employees.

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

The provisions of this Code do not apply to grievances raised on behalf of two or
more employees by a representative of a recognised trade union or other
appropriate workplace representative. These grievances should be handled in
accordance with the organisation’s collective grievance process.

 

Occasionally a collective grievance may arise where a number of people have the
same grievance at the same time. If there is a grievance which applies to more
than one person this should be resolved in accordance with the organisation’s
collective grievance process — where one exists.

Grievances about fellow employees

Employees may complain that that they have been bullied, harassed or
discriminated against by another employee or may complain about another

38

292


--- New Page 39 ---
Page number: 39
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

employee’s attitude, capability for the job or even personal habits or personal
hygiene.

Employers must deal with these cases carefully. Conversations should be
handled in a way that is sensitive to the circumstances and the needs of the
individuals concerned. It is important not to make assumptions at the outset
about the facts of the case.

Where a grievance about a fellow employee is raised informally, after listening to
the employee who has made the complaint to understand their concern, the next
step should generally be to talk privately to the person complained about. This
may help clarify the situation and can help move things forward towards a
resolution. Alternatively, if those involved are willing, an independent mediator
may be able to help in some circumstances.

 

Employers should bear in mind that it is not only the individual who has raised
the grievance who may be distressed, but also the person complained about.
Care should be taken that any informal discussion with them remains
nonjudgmental. In particular, the discussion should not turn into a disciplinary
hearing.

If a formal grievance about a fellow employee is raised, the guidance outlined
below on handling formal grievances will apply.

 

Training for dealing with grievances

Management and employee representatives who may be involved in grievance
matters should be trained for the task.

For handling informal grievances effectively, good line management skills are
essential. Managers may benefit from training aimed at helping them become
more confident and emotionally intelligent in dealing with people, as well as
developing skills in handling difficult conversations.

Those who may be involved in handling formal grievances should be familiar with
the employer’s grievance procedure, and know how to conduct or represent at
grievance hearings. Consideration might be given to training managers and
employee representatives jointly on this. For information about suitable training
go to https://www.acas.org.uk/training.

 

Keeping written records
What records should be kept?

The foreword to the Code of Practice advises employers to keep a written record
of any disciplinary or grievances cases they deal with.

Records should include:

e the nature of the grievance

39

293


--- New Page 40 ---
Page number: 40
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

¢ what was decided and actions taken
e the reason for the actions

e whether an appeal was lodged

° the outcome of the appeal

° any subsequent developments.

Records should be treated as confidential and be kept no longer than necessary
in accordance with the data protection principles set out in the Data Protection
Act 2018. This Act also gives individuals the right to request and have access to
certain personal data stored about them. See Appendix 5 for further information.

 

Copies of meeting records should be given to the employee including copies of
any formal minutes that may have been taken. In certain circumstances (for
example to protect a witness) the employer might withhold some information.

Dealing with formal grievances

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

Where some form of formal action is needed, what action is reasonable or
justified will depend on all the circumstances of the particular case. Employment
tribunals will take the size and resources of an employer into account when
deciding on relevant cases and it may sometimes not be practicable for all
employers to take all of the steps set out in this Code.

That said, whenever a disciplinary or grievance process is being followed it is
important to deal with issues fairly. There are a number of elements to this:

« Employers and employees should raise and deal with issues promptly and
should not unreasonably delay meetings, decisions or confirmation of those
decisions.

* Employers and employees should act consistently.

« Employers should carry out any necessary investigations, to establish the
facts of the case.

« Employers should inform employees of the basis of the problem and give
them an opportunity to put their case in response before any decisions are
made.

* Employers should allow employees to be accompanied at any formal
disciplinary or grievance meeting.

« Employers should allow an employee to appeal against any formal decision
made.

 

40

294


--- New Page 41 ---
Page number: 41
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

The following pages give detailed guidance on handling formal grievances.
Always bear in mind the need for fairness when following procedures, taking
account of the elements from the Acas Code of Practice reproduced above.

A grievance process can be stressful for everyone involved. Different individuals
will respond differently to stressful situations. Sometimes a process may cause
extreme distress and even impact on a person’s mental health. Employers
should consider how they can provide support to minimise the risk of this
happening.

Where there are any signs of this happening to anyone involved in the process,
employers should consider whether the process can be adjusted in some way,
such as by allowing the individual to be accompanied at a grievance meeting by
a support worker or advocate from outside the organisation who has knowledge
of the individual’s mental health condition and its effects.

In some cases, it might be appropriate for an employer, with the agreement and
involvement of the individual, to seek professional medical help or guidance as
to how the grievance process can proceed fairly. If there are clear and repeated
signs of distress, the employer should encourage the individual to use an
employee assistance programme, where one is available, or consider suggesting
that the individual seeks advice from a GP. It is important to address this issue
early to avoid it escalating.

If someone has an existing mental health condition which they have previously
disclosed as a disability, the employer must make reasonable adjustments to the
process.

Employers may also wish to consider training to equip managers with the skills
needed to recognise the signs and symptoms of someone whose mental health
may be adversely affected by a grievance process.

Let the employer know the nature of the grievance

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

If it is not possible to resolve a grievance informally employees should raise the
matter formally and without unreasonable delay with a manager who is not the
subject of the grievance. This should be done in writing and should set out the
nature of the grievance.

 

Where a grievance is serious or an employee has attempted to raise a problem
informally without success, the employee should raise it formally with
management in writing.

Where employees have difficulty expressing themselves because of language or
other difficulties they may like to seek help from trade union or other employee
representatives or from colleagues.

41

295


--- New Page 42 ---
Page number: 42
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

When stating their grievance, employees should stick to the facts and avoid
language which may be considered insulting or abusive.

Where the grievance is against the line manager the employee may approach
another manager or raise the issue with their HR department if there is one. It is
helpful if the grievance procedure sets out who the individual should approach in
these circumstances.

In small firms run by an owner/manager there will be no alternative manager to
raise a grievance with. It is in the interests of such employers to make it clear
that they will treat all grievances fairly and objectively even if the grievance is
about something they have said or done.

Holding a grievance meeting

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

Employers should arrange for a formal meeting to be held without unreasonable
delay after a grievance is received.

Employers, employees and their companions should make every effort to attend
the meeting. Employees should be allowed to explain their grievance and how
they think it should be resolved. Consideration should be given to adjourning the
meeting for any investigation that may be necessary.

 

What is a grievance meeting?

In general terms a grievance meeting deals with any grievance raised by an
employee. For the purposes of the legal right to be accompanied, a grievance
meeting is defined as a meeting where an employer deals with a complaint about
a ‘duty owed by them to a worker’.

 

Preparing for the meeting

Managers should:

* arrange a meeting, ideally within five working days, in private where there
will not be interruptions

* consider arranging for someone who is not involved in the case to take a
note of the meeting and to act as a witness to what was said

* consider whether similar grievances have been raised before, how they
have been resolved, and any follow-up action that has been necessary.
This allows consistency of treatment

* consider arranging for an interpreter where the employee has difficulty
speaking English

42

296


--- New Page 43 ---
Page number: 43
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

* consider whether any reasonable adjustments are necessary for a person
who is disabled and/or their companion

¢ consider whether to offer independent mediation.

 

Conduct of the meeting

Managers should:

* remember that a grievance hearing is not the same as a disciplinary
hearing, and is an occasion when discussion and dialogue may lead to an
amicable solution

* make introductions as necessary

* remain impartial and objective at all times

e invite the employee to re-state their grievance and how they would like to
see it resolved

* put care and thought into resolving grievances. They are not normally
issues calling for snap decisions, and the employee may have been
holding the grievance for a long time. Make allowances for any reasonable
‘letting off steam’ if the employee is under stress

* consider adjourning the meeting if it is necessary to investigate any
statements made or new facts which arise

* sum up the main points

° tell the employee when they might reasonably expect a response if one
cannot be made at the time, bearing in mind the time limits set out in the
organisation’s procedure. If there is a subsequent delay in the anticipated
timescale for a response, for example due to the need to investigate
matters, the employee should also be informed of this.

Be calm, fair and follow the procedure

In smaller organisations, grievances can sometimes be taken as personal
criticism —- employers should be careful to hear any grievance in a calm and
objective manner, consider it impartially and be fair to the employee in seeking
a resolution of the problem. Following the grievance procedure can make this
easier.

 

Grievances in practice: an example

You are the owner of a small firm. An employee has been complaining that she is
being given too much work and can’t complete it in time. You have told the
employee that her predecessor had no problem completing the same amount of

43

297


--- New Page 44 ---
Page number: 44
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

work and that things will get easier with experience. The employee is not happy
and puts her grievance to you in writing.

You invite the employee to a meeting to discuss the grievance and inform her of
her right to be accompanied. At the meeting you discover that the employee is
working on a different computer from her predecessor. The computer is slower
and uses an old version of the software required to carry out the work. You
agree to upgrade the software, provide training and to review progress in a
month. You confirm what was agreed in writing and inform the employee of her
right to an appeal meeting if she feels her grievance has not been satisfactorily
resolved.

 

Allowing a worker to be accompanied at the grievance meeting

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

Workers have a statutory right to be accompanied by a companion at a
grievance meeting which deals with a complaint about a duty owed by the
employer to the worker. So this would apply where the complaint is, for
example, that the employer is not honouring the worker’s contract, or is in
breach of legislation.

The statutory right is to be accompanied by a fellow worker, a trade union
representative, or an official employed by a trade union. A trade union
representative who is not an employed official must have been certified by their
union as being competent to accompany a worker. Employers must agree to a
worker’s request to be accompanied by any companion from one of these
categories. Workers may also alter their choice of companion if they wish. As a
matter of good practice, in making their choice workers should bear in mind the
practicalities of the arrangements. For instance, a worker may choose to be
accompanied by a companion who is suitable, willing and available on site rather
than someone from a geographically remote location.

To exercise the statutory right to be accompanied workers must make a
reasonable request. What is reasonable will depend on the circumstances of each
individual case. A request to be accompanied does not have to be in writing or
within a certain timeframe. However, a worker should provide enough time for
the employer to deal with the companion’s attendance at the meeting. Workers
should also consider how they make their request so that it is clearly
understood, for instance by letting the employer know in advance the name of
the companion where possible and whether they are a fellow worker or trade
union official or representative.

If a worker’s chosen companion will not be available at the time proposed for the
hearing by the employer, the employer must postpone the hearing to a time
proposed by the worker provided that the alternative time is both reasonable
and not more than five working days after the date originally proposed.

The companion should be allowed to address the hearing to put and sum up the
worker’s case, respond on behalf of the worker to any views expressed at the
meeting and confer with the worker during the hearing. The companion does not

44

298


--- New Page 45 ---
Page number: 45
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

however have the right to answer questions on the workers behalf, address the
hearing if the worker does not wish it or prevent the employer from explaining
their case.

 

When do workers have the right to be accompanied?

A worker who raises a formal grievance about a duty owed to them by their
employer has a right to be accompanied at a grievance hearing. This includes
any meeting held with them to hear about, gather facts about, discuss, consider
or resolve their grievance.

An employer’s duties to a worker include the employer’s legal and contractual
obligations to the worker. In grievances raised about other types of issues the
statutory right of accompaniment may not apply.

For instance, an individual is unlikely to have the statutory right to
accompaniment at a meeting to consider a request for a pay rise, unless there is
a specific contractual right to a pay increase, or their request raises an issue
about an employer’s legal obligations, such as payment of the National Minimum
Wage or the law on equal pay.

Equally, as most employers will be under no duty to provide their workers with
car parking facilities, usually there will be no statutory right to be accompanied
at a meeting held to hear a grievance about such facilities. However, if a worker
were disabled and needed a car to get to and from work, they would have a
statutory right to a companion at a grievance meeting if their complaint about
parking facilities concerned the employer’s legal duties to the worker under the
Equality Act 2010.

Similarly, as employers have a general duty of care to their workers under
common law, a worker who raises a formal grievance about being bullied or
harassed by a fellow worker will have the statutory right to a companion at a
grievance hearing about the complaint.

Even where the statutory right to accompaniment does not apply, it is generally
good practice to allow workers who raise a grievance to be accompanied at any
formal grievance hearing.

The statutory right to accompaniment applies to the worker who has raised the
grievance. However, it may be appropriate in some circumstances to allow other
individuals to be accompanied at grievance hearings. For instance, where a
formal grievance is raised about a fellow worker, such as a complaint about
bullying or harassment, the person complained about should also be allowed to
be accompanied, by a fellow employee or trade union representative of their
choice, at grievance meetings that involve them. In such cases, the person
complained about should also be allowed to see relevant evidence and copies of
any witness statements, and given reasonable time to share these with their
chosen companion, so that they can fairly prepare for the grievance meeting.

45

299


--- New Page 46 ---
Page number: 46
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

What is a reasonable request?

Whether a request for a companion is reasonable will depend on the
circumstances of the individual case and, ultimately, it is a matter for the courts
and tribunals to decide if disputed. However, a worker should provide enough
time for the employer to deal with the companion’s attendance at the meeting.

Workers should also consider how they make their request so that it is clearly
understood, for instance by letting the employer know in advance the name of
the companion where possible and whether they are a fellow worker or trade
union official or representative.

The companion

The companion may be:

° a fellow worker (ie another of the employer’s workers)
° an official employed by a trade union

* aworkplace trade union representative, as long as they have been
reasonably certified in writing by their union as having experience of, or
having received training in, acting as a worker’s companion at disciplinary
or grievance hearings. Certification may take the form of a card or letter.

Employers are free, but are not obliged, to allow workers to be accompanied by
a companion who does not fall within the above categories. Some workers may
have a contractual right to be accompanied by persons other than those listed
above (for instance a professional support body, partner, spouse or legal
representative).

Reasonable adjustment may be needed for a worker with a disability (and
possibly for their companion if they are disabled). For example the provision of a
support worker or advocate with knowledge of the disability and its effects.

Workers may ask an official from any trade union to accompany them at a
disciplinary or grievance hearing, regardless of whether or not they are a
member or the union is recognised.

Fellow workers or trade union officials do not have to accept a request to
accompany a worker, and they should not be pressurised to do so.

Trade unions should ensure that their officials are trained in the role of acting as
a worker's companion. Even when a trade union official has experience of acting
in the role, there may still be a need for periodic refresher training. Employers
should consider allowing time off for this training.

A worker who has agreed to accompany a colleague employed by the same
employer is entitled to take a reasonable amount of paid time off to fulfil that
responsibility. This should cover the hearing and it is also good practice to allow

46

308


--- New Page 47 ---
Page number: 47
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

time for the companion to familiarise themselves with the case and confer with
the worker before and after the hearing.

A lay trade union official is permitted to take a reasonable amount of paid time
off to accompany a worker at a hearing, as long as the worker is employed by
the same employer. In cases where a lay official agrees to accompany a worker
employed by another organisation, time off is a matter for agreement by the
parties concerned.

Applying the right

The employer should allow a companion to have a say in the date and time of a
hearing. If the companion cannot attend on a proposed date, the worker can
suggest an alternative time and date so long as it is reasonable and it is not
more than five working days after the original date.

Employers may, however, wish to allow more time than this for a re-arranged
meeting, particularly where the grievance may be connected with a potential
dismissal. For instance, a grievance raised by a worker who complains that an
ongoing disciplinary process which may result in their dismissal is unfair in some
way. An employer must always act fairly in order to avoid a finding of unfair
dismissal. Where there is a request to postpone a grievance hearing for more
than five working days because a trade union representative or other companion
is not available, it may be fair to allow the postponement if it does not cause
unreasonable delay. The employer should consider the facts and decide what is
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.

Before the hearing takes place, the worker should tell the employer who they
have chosen as a companion. In certain circumstances (for instance when the
companion is an official of a non-recognised trade union) it can be helpful for the
companion and employer to make contact before the hearing.

The companion must be allowed to address the meeting in order to:

e put the worker’s case
* sum up the worker’s case
* respond on the worker’s behalf to any view expressed at the hearing

° confer with the worker during the meeting.

The companion must also be allowed to confer with the worker during the
hearing. It is good practice to allow the companion to participate as fully as
possible in the hearing, including asking witnesses questions. The employer is,
however, not legally required to permit the companion to answer questions on
the worker’s behalf, or to address the hearing if the worker does not wish it, or
to prevent the employer from explaining their case.

Workers whose employers fail to comply with a reasonable request to be
accompanied may present a complaint to an employment tribunal. Workers may
also complain to a tribunal if employers fail to re-arrange a hearing to a

47

361


--- New Page 48 ---
Page number: 48
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

reasonable date proposed by the worker when a companion cannot attend on
the date originally proposed.

Employers should be careful not to disadvantage workers for using their right to
be accompanied or for being companions, as this is against the law and could
lead to a claim to an employment tribunal.

Decide on appropriate action

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

Following the meeting decide on what action, if any, to take. Decisions should be
communicated to the employee, in writing, without unreasonable delay and,
where appropriate, should set out what action the employer intends to take to
resolve the grievance. The employee should be informed that they can appeal if
they are not content with the action taken.

 

It is generally good practice to adjourn a meeting before a decision is taken
about how to deal with an employee’s grievance. This allows time for reflection
and proper consideration. It also allows for any further checking of any matters
raised.

Set out clearly in writing any action that is to be taken and the employee's right
of appeal. Where an employee’s grievance is not upheld make sure the reasons
are carefully explained.

Bear in mind that actions taken to resolve a grievance may have an impact on
other individuals. While confidentiality is of prime importance in handling any
grievance, in some circumstances there may be other individuals who may need
to know the outcome, or certain aspects of the outcome that will impact on
them. For instance, in cases where the grievance was about a fellow employee,
that individual should also be informed of any aspect of the decision that affects
them and the reasons for it. In such cases, the employee who raised the
grievance should be informed of who else will be told about the decision and
what type of information they will be given.

If the grievance highlights any issues concerning policies, procedures or conduct
(even if not sufficiently serious to merit separate disciplinary procedures) they
should be addressed as soon as possible.

Ensure any action taken is monitored and reviewed, as appropriate, so that it
deals effectively with the issues.

Allow the employee to take the grievance further if not resolved

 

Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
Extract

48

302


--- New Page 49 ---
Page number: 49
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Where an employee feels that their grievance has not been satisfactorily
resolved they should appeal. They should let their employer know the grounds
for their appeal without unreasonable delay and in writing.

Appeals should be heard without unreasonable delay and at a time and place
which should be notified to the employee in advance.

The appeal should be dealt with impartially and wherever possible by a manager
who has not previously been involved in the case.

Workers have a statutory right to be accompanied at any such appeal hearing.

The outcome of the appeal should be communicated to the employee in writing
without unreasonable delay.

 

Arranging an appeal

If an employee informs the employer that they are unhappy with the decision
after a grievance meeting, the employer should arrange an appeal. As far as
reasonably practicable the appeal should be dealt with by someone who was not
involved in the original case and ideally with a more senior manager than the
one who dealt with the original grievance.

In small organisations, even if there is no more senior manager available,
another manager should, if possible, hear the appeal. If this is not possible
consider whether the owner or, in the case of a charity, the board of trustees,
should hear the appeal. Whoever hears the appeal should consider it impartially.

At the same time as inviting the employee to attend the appeal, the employer
should remind them of their right to be accompanied at the appeal meeting.

The appeal meeting should be conducted in the same calm, impartial and fair
manner as the initial grievance meeting.

 

As with the first meeting, the employer should write to the employee with a
decision on their grievance as soon as possible. They should also tell the
employee if the appeal meeting is the final stage of the grievance procedure.

Where the grievance is about a fellow employee, that individual should be
informed both that the initial decision has been appealed and the anticipated
timeframe for the appeal decision, and should be provided with support where
necessary. Once a decision on the appeal has been made, that individual should
then be informed of any aspect of the decision that affects them and the reasons
for it.

As with the initial decision, the employee who raised the grievance should be
told if anyone else will be informed about the appeal decision and the type of
information they will be given.

Large organisations may wish to allow a further appeal to a higher level of
management, such as a director. However, in smaller firms the first appeal will
usually mark the end of the grievance procedure. A sample grievance procedure
for small organisations is at Appendix 2.

 

 

49

363


--- New Page 50 ---
Page number: 50
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Dealing with special cases

The foreword to the Code of Practice points out that organisations may wish to
consider dealing with issues involving bullying, harassment or whistleblowing
under a separate procedure.

For further advice about how to deal with bullying and harassment see the Acas
advice leaflet Bullying and harassment at work: a guide for managers and
employers available to download from the Acas website
www.acas.org.uk/bullying.

 

Mediation may be particularly useful in these types of cases.

Appendix |
Disciplinary rules for small organisations
Checklist
As a minimum, rules should:
° be simple, clear and in writing
° be displayed prominently in the workplace
* be known and understood by all employees

* cover issues such as absences, timekeeping, health and safety and use of
organisational facilities and equipment (add any other items relevant to
your organisation)

° indicate examples of the type of conduct which will normally lead to
disciplinary action other than dismissal - for instance lateness or
unauthorised absence

° indicate examples of the type of conduct which will normally lead to
dismissal without notice - examples may include working dangerously,
stealing or fighting - although much will depend on the circumstances of
each offence.

50

304


--- New Page 51 ---
Page number: 51
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Appendix 2

Sample disciplinary and grievance procedures
Sample disciplinary procedure (any organisation)

1. Purpose and scope

This procedure is designed to help and encourage all employees to achieve and
maintain standards of conduct, attendance and job performance. The company
rules (a copy of which is displayed in the office) and this procedure apply to all
employees. The aim is to ensure consistent and fair treatment for all in the
organisation.

2. Principles
Informal action will be considered, where appropriate, to resolve problems.

No disciplinary action will be taken against an employee until the case has been
fully investigated.

For formal action the employee will be advised of the nature of the complaint
against him or her and will be given the opportunity to state his or her case
before any decision is made at a disciplinary meeting.

Employees will be provided, where appropriate, with written copies of evidence
and relevant witness statements in advance of a disciplinary meeting.

At all stages of the procedure the employee will have the right to be
accompanied by a trade union representative, or work colleague.

No employee will be dismissed for a first breach of discipline except in the case
of gross misconduct, when the penalty will be dismissal without notice or
payment in lieu of notice.

An employee will have the right to appeal against any disciplinary action.

The procedure may be implemented at any stage if the employee’s alleged
misconduct warrants this.

3. The Procedure
First stage of formal procedure

This will normally be either:

* an improvement note for unsatisfactory performance if performance
does not meet acceptable standards. This will set out the performance
problem, the improvement that is required, the timescale, any help that
may be given and the right of appeal. The individual will be advised that it
constitutes the first stage of the formal procedure. A record of the
improvement note will be kept for ... months, but will then be considered
spent — subject to achieving and sustaining satisfactory performance

51

305


--- New Page 52 ---
Page number: 52
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

or

° a first warning for misconduct if conduct does not meet acceptable
standards. This will be in writing and set out the nature of the misconduct
and the change in behaviour required and the right of appeal. The warning
will also inform the employee that a final written warning may be
considered if there is no sustained satisfactory improvement or change. A
record of the warning will be kept, but it will be disregarded for
disciplinary purposes after a specified period (eg, six months).

Final written warning

If the offence is sufficiently serious, or if there is further misconduct or a failure
to improve performance during the currency of a prior warning, a final written
warning may be given to the employee. This will give details of the complaint,
the improvement required and the timescale. It will also warn that failure to
improve may lead to dismissal (or some other action short of dismissal) and will
refer to the right of appeal. A copy of this written warning will be kept by the
supervisor but will be disregarded for disciplinary purposes after ... months
subject to achieving and sustaining satisfactory conduct or performance.

Dismissal or other sanction

If there is still further misconduct or failure to improve performance the final
step in the procedure may be dismissal or some other action short of dismissal
such as demotion or disciplinary suspension or transfer (as allowed in the
contract of employment). Dismissal decisions can only be taken by the
appropriate senior manager, and the employee will be provided in writing with
reasons for dismissal, the date on which the employment will terminate, and the
right of appeal.

If some sanction short of dismissal is imposed, the employee will receive details
of the complaint, will be warned that dismissal could result if there is no
satisfactory improvement, and will be advised of the right of appeal. A copy of
the written warning will be kept by the supervisor but will be disregarded for
disciplinary purposes after ... months subject to achievement and sustainment of
satisfactory conduct or performance.

Gross misconduct

The following list provides some examples of offences which are normally
regarded as gross misconduct:

° theft or fraud

° physical violence or bullying

e deliberate and serious damage to property

* serious misuse of an organisation’s property or name

e deliberately accessing internet sites containing pornographic, offensive or
obscene material

52

306


--- New Page 53 ---
Page number: 53
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

° serious insubordination
e unlawful discrimination or harassment

° bringing the organisation into serious disrepute

* serious incapability at work brought on by alcohol or illegal drugs
* causing loss, damage or injury through serious negligence

* aserious breach of health and safety rules

* a serious breach of confidence.

If you are accused of an act of gross misconduct, you may be suspended from
work on full pay, normally for no more than five working days, while the alleged
offence is investigated. If, on completion of the investigation and the full
disciplinary procedure, the organisation is satisfied that gross misconduct has
occurred, the result will normally be summary dismissal without notice or
payment in lieu of notice.

Appeals

An employee who wishes to appeal against a disciplinary decision must do so
within five working days. The senior manager will hear all appeals and his/her
decision is final. At the appeal any disciplinary penalty imposed will be reviewed.

53

307


--- New Page 54 ---
Page number: 54
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Sample disciplinary procedure (small organisation)
1. Purpose and scope

The organisation's aim is to encourage improvement in individual conduct or
performance. This procedure sets out the action which will be taken when
disciplinary rules are breached.

2. Principles

a) The procedure is designed to establish the facts quickly and to deal
consistently with disciplinary issues. No disciplinary action will be taken until
the matter has been fully investigated.

b) At every stage employees will be informed in writing of what is alleged and
have the opportunity to state their case at a disciplinary meeting and be
represented or accompanied, if they wish, by a trade union representative or
a work colleague.

c) An employee has the right to appeal against any disciplinary penalty.

3. The Procedure

Stage 1 - first warning

If conduct or performance is unsatisfactory, the employee will be given a written
warning or performance note. Such warnings will be recorded, but disregarded
after ... months of satisfactory service. The employee will also be informed that
a final written warning may be considered if there is no sustained satisfactory
improvement or change. (Where the first offence is sufficiently serious, for
example because it is having, or is likely to have, a serious harmful effect on the
organisation, it may be justifiable to move directly to a final written warning.)

Stage 2 -— final written warning

If the offence is serious, or there is no improvement in standards, or if a further
offence of a similar kind occurs, a final written warning will be given which will
include the reason for the warning and a note that if no improvement results
within ... months, action at Stage 3 will be taken.

Stage 3 - dismissal or action short of dismissal

If the conduct or performance has failed to improve, the employee may suffer
demotion, disciplinary transfer, loss of seniority (as allowed in the contract) or
dismissal.

Gross misconduct

If, after investigation, it is confirmed that an employee has committed an
offence of the following nature (the list is not exhaustive), the normal

consequence will be dismissal without notice or payment in lieu of notice: °
theft, damage to property, fraud, incapacity for work due to being under the

54

308


--- New Page 55 ---
Page number: 55
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

influence of alcohol or illegal drugs, physical violence, bullying and gross
insubordination.

While the alleged gross misconduct is being investigated, the employee may be
suspended, during which time he or she will be paid their normal pay rate. Any
decision to dismiss will be taken by the employer only after full investigation.
Appeals

An employee who wishes to appeal against any disciplinary decision must do so
to the named person in the organisation within five working days. The employer
will hear the appeal and decide the case impartially.

55

309


--- New Page 56 ---
Page number: 56
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Sample grievance procedure (small organisation)

Dealing with grievances informally

If you have a grievance or complaint to do with your work or the people you
work with you should, wherever possible, start by talking it over with your
manager. You may be able to agree a solution informally between you.

Formal grievance

If the matter is serious and/or you wish to raise the matter formally you should
set out the grievance in writing to your manager. You should stick to the facts
and avoid language that is insulting or abusive.

Where your grievance is against your manager and you feel unable to approach
him or her you should talk to another manager or the owner.

Grievance hearing

Your manager will call you to a meeting, normally within five working days, to
discuss your grievance. You have the right to be accompanied by a colleague or
trade union representative at this meeting if you make a reasonable request.

After the meeting the manager will give you a decision in writing, normally
within 24 hours.

If it is necessary to gather further information before making a decision your
manger will inform you of this and the likely timescale involved.

Appeal

If you are unhappy with your manager’s decision and you wish to appeal you
should let your manager know.

You will be invited to an appeal meeting, normally within five working days, and
your appeal will be heard by a more senior manager (or the company owner).
You have the right to be accompanied by a colleague or trade union
representative at this meeting if you make a reasonable request.

After the meeting the manager (or owner) will give you a decision, normally
within 24 hours. The manager’s (or owner’s) decision is final.

Appendix 3

Sample letters

Contents

1. Notice of disciplinary meeting

 

2. Notice of written warning or final written warning

 

56

318


--- New Page 57 ---
Page number: 57
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

3. Notice of appeal meeting against warning

 

4. Notice of result of appeal against warning

 

5. Letter to be sent by the employer to arrange a meeting where dismissal or
action short of dismissal is being considered

 

 

6. Letter to be sent by the employer after the disciplinary meeting arranged
in Letter 5

 

7. Notice of appeal meeting against dismissal

 

8. Notice of result of appeal against dismissal

 

9. Letter of enquiry regarding likely cause of absence addressed to a
worker’s general practitioner

 

 

(1) Notice of disciplinary meeting

I am writing to tell you that you are required to attend a disciplinary meeting on
beeeeeeeeeeeeeueaags at ...........022..5.. aM/pm which is to be held in ..............0000 ee

At this meeting the question of disciplinary action against you, in accordance
with the Company Disciplinary Procedure, will be considered with regard to:

You are entitled, if you wish, to be accompanied by another work colleague or a
trade union representative.

I enclose the following documents*:

The possible consequences arising from this meeting might be: .............

Yours sincerely

Signed Manager

57

311


--- New Page 58 ---
Page number: 58
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Note:
* Delete if not applicable

(2) Notice of written warning or final written warning

This warning will be placed in your personal file but will be disregarded for
disciplinary purposes after a period Of ..........ccceeeeaes months, provided your
conduct improves/performance reaches a satisfactory level**.

You have the right to appeal against this decision (in writing**) to
beteeeeeeeeeeeeeeees WITHIN Vo... days of receiving this disciplinary decision.

(3) Notice of appeal meeting against warning

You attended a disciplinary hearing on
of your written warning/final written warning*.

Iam writing to inform you

a) The nature of the unsatisfactory conduct or performance was:
b) The conduct or performance improvement expected is:
c) The timescale within which the improvement is required is:

d) The likely consequence of further misconduct or insufficient improvement is:
Final written warning/dismissal

Yours sincerely

Signed Manager

Note:
* The wording should be amended as appropriate
** Delete as appropriate

58

312


--- New Page 59 ---
Page number: 59
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

You are entitled to be accompanied by a work colleague or trade union
representative.

Yours sincerely

ee am/pm.
SIiGMed MANGE ........cecceee ence eee sees tees eee eeeeeeeeaeeaaee
Note:

* The wording should be amended as appropriate
(4) Notice of result of appeal against warning

Discipline and grievances at work
You have appealed against the written warning/final written warning* confirmed
to yOu IN WTitiNG ON ..... cece eee eee

Your appeal will be heard Dy ......cccceeeeeeee ee WD cece eee eeee neces ON veceeeee tease eaeeees
The decision of this appeal hearing is final and there is no further right of review.
You appealed against the decision of the disciplinary hearing that you be given a
bite eeeeeeeeaeeeeaes warning in accordance with the Company Disciplinary Procedure.
The appeal hearing was held ON ..........cceeeee eee

I am now writing to inform you of the decision taken by the Manager who
conducted the appeal hearing, namely that the decision to ..........c.cceeeaes
stands*/the deciSion tO .........cceeeeeaees be revoked* [specify if no disciplinary
action is being taken or what the new disciplinary action is].

You have now exercised your right of appeal under the Company Disciplinary
Procedure and this decision is final.

Yours sincerely

59

313


--- New Page 60 ---
Page number: 60
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Signed Manager
Note:
* The wording should be amended as appropriate

Discipline and grievances at work
(5) Letter to be sent by the employer to arrange a meeting where dismissal or
action short of dismissal* is being considered
You are invited to attend a disciplinary meeting ON ...........ceeeee eee
discussed.
You are entitled, if you wish, to be accompanied by another work colleague or

beeeeeeeeeeeeeueaags am/pm which is to be held in ..............00000s

your trade union representative.

(6) Letter to be sent by the employer after the disciplinary meeting arranged
in Letter 5

I am writing to tell you that [insert organisation name] is
considering dismissing OR taking disciplinary action [insert proposed action]
against you.

This action is being considered with regard to the following circumstances:

Yours sincerely

Signed Manager

Note:
* Action other than a warning such as transfer or demotion

 

60

314


--- New Page 61 ---
Page number: 61
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

On you were informed that [insert organisation
name] was considering dismissing OR taking disciplinary action [insert proposed

action] against you.
You have the right of appeal against this decision. Please [write] to

following disciplinary action would be taken against you .............66.
I am therefore writing to you to confirm the decision that you be dismissed and
I am therefore writing to you to confirm the decision that disciplinary action will
be taken against you. The action will be ................0088
veeeeeueeeuauauuuens Within ...........s6:.+88.. Gays Of receiving this disciplinary decision
(7) Notice of appeal meeting against dismissal/disciplinary action*

that your last day of service with the Company will be ...............

You have appealed against your dismissal/disciplinary action [delete as
appropriate] ONn .............08. confirmed to you iN WFitiNg ON .......ceceeeee wees

Your appeal will be heard Dy .........cccccecee ee WD cece ceceee ee eeeeeee OM ceccceeeeeeeeeeeeees

ee am/pm.

This was discussed in a meeting on
decided that: [delete as applicable]

At this meeting, it was

e Your conduct/performance/etc was still unsatisfactory and that you be
dismissed.

¢ Your conduct/performance/etc was still unsatisfactory and that the

° No further action would be taken against you.

The reasons for your dismissal are: .......................ccceeeeeee Or:

The reasons for this disciplinary action arel.................ccceeeeeeeteeees

Yours sincerely

Signed Manager

61

315


--- New Page 62 ---
Page number: 62
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

You are entitled, if you wish, to be accompanied by another work colleague or a
trade union representative.

The decision of this appeal meeting is final and there is no further right of

review.
Yours sincerely
(8) Notice of result of appeal against dismissal/disciplinary action*

Signed Manager

Note:
* Action other than a warning such as transfer or demotion

 

The appeal meeting was held on

You appealed against the decision of the disciplinary hearing that you be
dismissed/subject to disciplinary action [delete as appropriate].

I am now writing to inform you of the decision taken by .........ccceeeeeees [insert
name of the manager] who conducted the appeal meeting, namely that the
CeCISION tO .......ccceceeeeeees stands/the decision to ..........:c0eceeeee be revoked
[specify if no disciplinary action is being taken or what the new disciplinary
action is].

You have now exercised your right of appeal under the Company Disciplinary
Procedure and this decision is final.

Yours sincerely

Signed Manager

Note:
* Action other than a warning such as transfer or demotion

 

62

316


--- New Page 63 ---
Page number: 63
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

(9) Letter of enquiry regarding likely cause of absence addressed to a
worker’s general practitioner

PLEASE ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT OF THIS LETTER IF THERE IS LIKELY TO BE
ANY DELAY IN REPLYING

To administer Statutory Sick Pay, and the Company’s sick pay scheme, and to
plan the work in the department, it would be helpful to have a report on your
patient, who works for our organisation.

His/her work as a has the following major features:

Management responsibility for
Seated/standing/mobile
Light/medium/heavy effort required

Day/shift/night work

Clerical/secretarial duties

Group I (private)/Group II (professional) driver Other

The absence record for the past year is summarised as:

Total days lost
This month
Previous months

Attached is your patient’s permission to enquire. He/she wishes/does not wish to
have access to the report under the Access to Medical Reports Act 1988:

63

317


--- New Page 64 ---
Page number: 64
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

What is the likely date of return to work?
Will there be any disability at that time?
How long is it likely to last?

Are there any reasonable adjustments we could make to accommodate the
disability?

Is there any underlying medical reason for this attendance record?
Is he/she likely to be able to render regular and efficient service in the future?

Is there any specific recommendation you wish to make about him/her which
would help in finding him/her an alternative job, if that is necessary, and if there
is an opportunity for redeployment (for instance no climbing ladders, no driving).

I would be grateful for an early reply and enclose a stamped addressed
envelope. Please attach your account to the report (following the BMA guidance

on fees).
Signed Name (BLOCK LETTERS) ......ccccccecceeeseeeeee tease eee enaeeeaee eae ens

Yours sincerely

Role in the company

Note:
Please amend/delete where necessary

Appendix 4

Dealing with absence

This appendix considers how to handle problems of absence and gives guidance
about unauthorised short-term and long-term absences, and the failure to return
from extended leave. More extensive advice on attendance management is
available in the Acas advisory booklet, Managing attendance and employee
turnover available to download on the Acas website https://www.acas.org.uk.

 

A distinction should be made between absence on grounds of illness or injury
and absence for no good reason which may call for disciplinary action. Where
disciplinary action is called for, the normal disciplinary procedure should be used.
Where the employee is absent because of illness or injury, the guidance in this
Appendix should be followed.

64

318


--- New Page 65 ---
Page number: 65
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Employers should be aware of the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 when
making any decisions that affect someone who may be disabled as defined by
the Act. (For further information see the Equality and Human Rights Commission
website at https://www.equalityhumanrights.com.)

 

Records showing lateness and the duration of and reasons for all spells of
absence should be kept to help monitor absence levels. These enable
management to check levels of absence or lateness so that problems can be
spotted and addressed at an early stage. (The Information Commissioner has
produced a Code of Practice on employment records, available at
https://www.ico.org.uk).

 

How should frequent and persistent short-term absence be handled?

* unexpected absences should be investigated promptly and the employee
asked for an explanation at a return-to-work interview

e if there are no acceptable reasons then the employer may wish to treat the
matter as a conduct issue and deal with it under the disciplinary procedure

e where there is no medical certificate to support frequent short-term,
selfcertified, absences then the employee should be asked to see a doctor to
establish whether treatment is necessary and whether the underlying reason
for the absence is work-related. If no medical support is forthcoming the
employer should consider whether to take action under the disciplinary
procedure

if the absence could be disability related the employer should consider what
reasonable adjustments could be made in the workplace to help the
employee (this might be something as simple as an adequate, ergonomic
chair, or a power-assisted piece of equipment). Reasonable adjustment also
means redeployment to a different type of work if necessary. (For further
information see the Equality and Human Rights Commission website at
www.equalityhumanrights.com. )

 

e if the absence is because of temporary problems relating to dependants, the
employee may be entitled to have time off under the provisions of the
Employment Rights Act 1996 relating to time off for dependants

e if the absence is because the employee has difficulty managing both work
and home responsibilities then the employer should give serious
consideration to more flexible ways of working. Employees have the right to
request flexible working arrangements — including job-sharing, part-time
working, flexi-time, working from home/teleworking and school time
contracts - and employers must have a good business reason for rejecting
any application

65

319


--- New Page 66 ---
Page number: 66
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

e in all cases the employee should be told what improvement in attendance is
expected and warned of the likely consequences if this does not happen

° if there is no improvement, the employee's length of service, performance,
the likelihood of a change in attendance, the availability of suitable
alternative work where appropriate, and the effect of past and future
absences on the organisation should all be taken into account in deciding
appropriate action.

In order to show both the employee concerned, and other employees, that
absence is regarded as a serious matter and may result in dismissal, it is very
important that persistent absence is dealt with promptly, firmly and consistently.

An examination of records will identify those employees who are frequently
absent and may show an absence pattern.

How should longer-term absence through ill health be handled?

Where absence is due to medically certificated illness, the issue becomes one of
capability rather than conduct. Employers need to take a more sympathetic and
considerate approach, particularly if the employee is disabled and where
reasonable adjustments at the workplace might enable them to return to work.

There are certain steps an employer should take when considering the problem
of long-term absence:

* employee and employer should keep in regular contact with each other
e the employee must be kept fully informed if there is any risk to employment

° if the employer wishes to contact the employee’s doctor, he or she must
notify the employee in writing that they intend to make such an application
and they must secure the employee’s consent in writing (Access to Medical
Reports Act 1988). The employer must inform the individual that he or she
has:

— the right to withhold consent to the application being made

— the right to state that he or she wishes to have access to the report.
(The Access to Medical Reports Act 1988 gives the individual the right
to have access to the medical practitioner’s report for up to six months
after it was supplied)

— rights concerning access to the report before (and/or after) it is
supplied

— the right to withhold consent to the report being supplied to the
employer

66

328


--- New Page 67 ---
Page number: 67
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

— the right to request amendments to the report

° where the employee states that he or she wishes to have access to the
report, the employer must let the GP know this when making the application
and at the same time let the employee know that the report has been
requested

e the letter of enquiry reproduced in Appendix 3 —- Sample letters, and
approved by the British Medical Association, may be used, and the
employee’s permission to the enquiry should be attached to the letter

 

e the GP should return the report via the company doctor. If there is not one
the employer should make it clear to the employee, when seeking permission
to approach the GP, that the report will be sent direct to the employer.
(Employers who wish to seek advice on securing the services of a company
doctor should contact the Faculty of Occupational Medicine
https://www.fom.ac.uk/)

 

e the employee must contact the GP within 21 days of the date of application
to make arrangement to see the report. Otherwise the rights under the 1988
Act will be lost

° if the employee considers the report to be incorrect or misleading, the
employee may make a written request to the GP to make appropriate
amendments

° if the GP refuses, the employee has the right to ask the GP to attach a
statement to the report reflecting the employee’s view on any matters of
disagreement

° the employee may withhold consent to the report being supplied to the
employer

* on the basis of the GP’s report the employer should consider whether
alternative work is available

° the employer is not expected to create a special job for the employee
concerned, nor to be a medical expert, but to take action on the basis of the
medical evidence

° where there is a reasonable doubt about the nature of the illness or injury,
the employee should be asked if he or she would agree to be examined by a
doctor to be appointed by the organisation

67

321


--- New Page 68 ---
Page number: 68
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

e where an employee refuses to cooperate in providing medical evidence, or to
undergo an independent medical examination, the employee should be told in
writing that a decision will be taken on the basis of the information available
and that it could result in dismissal

° where the employee is allergic to a product used in the workplace the
employer should consider remedial action or a transfer to alternative work

e where the employee’s job can no longer be held open, and no suitable
alternative work is available, the employee should be informed of the
likelihood of dismissal

e where dismissal action is taken the employee should be given the period of
notice to which he or she is entitled by statute or contract and informed of
any right of appeal.

Where an employee has been on long-term sickness absence and there is little
likelihood of them becoming fit enough to return, it may be argued that the
contract of employment has been terminated through ‘frustration’. However, the
doctrine of frustration should not be relied on since the courts are generally
reluctant to apply it where a procedure exists for termination of the contract. It
is therefore better for the employer to take dismissal action after following
proper procedures.

 

Specific health problems

Consideration should be given to introducing measures to help employees,
regardless of status or seniority, who are suffering from alcohol or drug abuse,
or from stress. The aim should be to identify employees affected and encourage
them to seek help and treatment. See the Acas advisory booklet Hea/th, work
and wellbeing available to download on the Acas website
https://www.acas.org.uk Employers should consider whether it is appropriate to
treat the problem as a medical rather than a disciplinary matter.

 

There is sometimes workforce pressure to dismiss an employee because of a
medical condition, or even threats of industrial action. If such an employee is
dismissed, then he or she may be able to claim unfair dismissal before an
employment tribunal, or breach of contract. Employers should bear in mind that
they may have to justify the reasonableness of any decision to dismiss and that
an employment tribunal will ignore threats of, and actual, industrial action when
determining the fairness of a decision (Section 107, Employment Rights Act
1996).

The Equality Act 2010 makes it unlawful for an employer of any size to treat a
disabled person less favourably for a reason relating to their disability, without a
justifiable reason. Employers are required to make a reasonable adjustment to
working conditions or the workplace where that would help to accommodate a
particular disabled person.

68

322


--- New Page 69 ---
Page number: 69
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Failure to return from extended leave on the agreed date

Employers may have policies which allow employees extended leave of absence
without pay, for example to visit relatives in their countries of origin, or relatives
who have emigrated to other countries, or to nurse a sick relative. There is no
general statutory right to such leave without pay, except to deal with an initial
emergency relating to a dependant under the Employment Rights Act 1996.

Where a policy of extended leave is in operation, the following points should be
borne in mind:

e the policy should apply to all employees, irrespective of their age, disability,
gender reassignment, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy and
maternity, race, religion or belief, sex, or sexual orientation

* any conditions attaching to the granting of extended leave should be carefully
explained to the employee, using interpreters if necessary, and the
employee’s signature should be obtained as an acknowledgement that he or
she understands and accepts them.

* employers should be aware that agreed extended leave can preserve
continuity of employment, even when such leave is unpaid and other terms
and conditions of employment are suspended for the duration of the leave

° if an employee fails to return on the agreed date, this should be approached
in the same way as any other failure to abide by the rules and the
circumstances should be investigated in the normal way, with disciplinary
procedures being followed if appropriate

* care should be taken to ensure that foreign medical certificates are not
treated in a discriminatory way: employees can fall ill while abroad just as
they can fall ill in this country

° before deciding to dismiss an employee who overstays leave, the employee’s
experience, length of service, reliability record and any explanation given
should all be taken into account

e failure to return from ordinary maternity leave does not of itself terminate
the contract of employment. Employers should try and find out the reason for
the failure and take action if necessary as in any other case of failing to
return from leave (whether extended/additional
maternity/paternity/adoption/parental leave; time off for dependants; or
holiday leave).

An agreement that an employee should return to work on a particular date will
not prevent a complaint of unfair dismissal to an employment tribunal if the
employee is dismissed for failing to return as agreed. In all such cases, all the
factors mentioned above and the need to act reasonably should be borne in
mind before any dismissal action is taken.

69

323


--- New Page 70 ---
Page number: 70
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Appendix 5

Basic principles of the Data Protection Act 2018 and The Equality
Act 2010

The Data Protection Act 2018

The Data Protection Act provides a framework that controls how personal
information is used by organisations, businesses or the government.

The Act works in two ways. Firstly, it states that anyone who processes personal
information must comply with six principles, which make sure that the
information is:

° used fairly, lawfully and transparently
e used for specified, explicit purposes

°e used in a way that is adequate, relevant and limited to only what is
necessary

* accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date
° kept for no longer than is necessary

° handled in a way that ensures appropriate security, including protection
against unlawful or unauthorised processing, access, loss, destruction or
damage

There is stronger legal protection for more sensitive information, such as:

° race

° ethnic background

° political opinions

° religious beliefs

* trade union membership

° genetics

* biometrics (where used for identification)
° health

e sex life or orientation

There are separate safeguards for personal data relating to criminal convictions
and offences.

70

324


--- New Page 71 ---
Page number: 71
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

The second area covered by the Act provides individuals with important rights.
These include the right to:

° be informed about how your data is being used
* access personal data

e have incorrect data updated

° have data erased

e stop or restrict the processing of your data

° data portability (allowing you to get and reuse your data for different
services)

* object to how your data is processed in certain circumstances.

Should an individual or organisation feel they’re being denied access to personal
information they’re entitled to, or feel their information has not been handled
according to the six principles, they can contact the Information Commissioner’s
Office (ICO) for help on O303 123 1113. Complaints are usually dealt with
informally, but if this isn’t possible, enforcement action can be taken.

The ICO provides comprehensive practical advice on how to comply with data
protection law at_www.ico.org.uk. In particular, the Employment Practices Data
Protection Code deals with the impact of data protection laws on the
employment relationship. It covers such issues as:

* recruitment and selection (job applications and pre-employment
vetting)

* employment records (collecting, storing, disclosing and deleting records

* monitoring at work (monitoring workers’ use of telephones, the
internet, e-mail systems and vehicles)

° workers’ health (occupational health, medical testing, drug and genetic
screening).

The Equality Act 2010

The Equality Act gives disabled people some particular employment rights. A
disabled person is defined in the Act as ‘anyone with a physical or mental
impairment which has a substantial and long-term adverse effect upon his or her
ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities’.

However, disability does not necessarily affect someone’s health, so insisting on
a medical report purely on the basis of the disability may be unlawful
discrimination. If your organisation believes that pre- employment health
screening is necessary, you must make Sure it is carried out ina

71

325


--- New Page 72 ---
Page number: 72
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

nondiscriminatory way. It is unlawful to ask health related questions before
making a job offer (whether conditional or unconditional), except in order to:

e determine if a candidate can carry out a function which is essential to the
job

* ask whether candidates need special arrangements for any part of the
application process

* anonymously monitor whether candidates are disabled
° take positive action to assist disabled people

e check that a candidate has a disability where this is a genuine
requirement of the job.

If a report from any individual’s doctor is sought, then permission must be given
by the individual, and they have the right to see the report (Access to Medical
Reports Act 1988).

Discrimination means treating someone less favourably without a reasonable
justification, and the Act requires that employers make reasonable adjustments
if that will then remove the reason for the unfavourable treatment. An example
of a reasonable adjustment could be the provision of a suitable computer
keyboard to an operator who had difficulty through disability in using a
conventional keyboard.

In relation to discipline and grievance procedures, employers must clearly ensure
they do not discriminate in any area of practice which could lead to dismissal or
any other detriment (for example warnings).

The Act also covers people who become disabled during the course of their
employment, and this is particularly relevant to the absence handling section of
this handbook. It is vital that the employer should discuss with the worker what
their needs really are and what effect, if any, the disability may have on future
work with the organisation. Any dismissal of a disabled employee for a reason
relating to the disability would have to be justified, and the reason for it would
have to be one which could not be removed or made less than substantial by
any reasonable adjustment.

The Equality and Human Rights Commission provides information and advice
about all aspects of the Equality Act 2010, as well as signposting specialist
organisations where necessary. In addition, it can offer good practice advice on
the employment of disabled people.

www.egualityhumanrights.com

Tel: England 0845 604 6610, Scotland 0845 604 5510 and for Wales 0845
604 8810.

 

72

326


--- New Page 73 ---
Page number: 73
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Glossary

Capability: an employee’s ability or qualification to do their job. Most often
referred to in discipline cases where there is a lack of capability

Conduct: an employee’s behaviour in the workplace

Disciplinary action: formal action against an employee: for example issuing a
first written warning for misconduct or dismissing someone for gross misconduct

Disciplinary procedure: a procedure for organisations to follow to deal with
cases of misconduct or unsatisfactory performance. It helps employers deal with
discipline cases fairly and consistently

Employees: people who work for an employer under a contract of employment
and who are entitled to all statutory employment rights. See also the glossary
entry for “Workers” below

Grievance: a problem or concern that an employee has about their work,
working conditions or relationships with colleagues or managers

Grievance procedure: a procedure for organisations to use to consider
employees’ grievances. It helps employers deal with grievances fairly and
consistently

Gross misconduct: acts which are so serious as to justify possible dismissal.
See example list in Taking action after the disciplinary meeting

 

Improvement note: in cases of unsatisfactory performance an employee
should be given an improvement note setting out the performance problem, the
improvement that is required, the timescale for achieving this improvement, a
review date and any support the employer will provide to assist the employee

Natural justice: refers to the basic fundamental principles of fair treatment.
These principles include the duty to give someone a fair hearing; the duty to
ensure that the matter is decided by someone who is impartial; and the duty to
allow an appeal against a decision

Reasonable adjustments: a way of preventing discrimination against disabled
employees by making changes to ensure that they are not at a disadvantage.
For example, providing a specialist keyboard may be a reasonable adjustment
for a disabled employee unable to use a conventional keyboard

Sanction: a punishment imposed on an employee as a result of unsatisfactory
performance or misconduct. Sanctions may include dismissal or actions short of
dismissal such as loss of pay or demotion

Summary dismissal: dismissal without notice - usually only justifiable for
gross misconduct. Summary is not necessarily the same as instant and incidents
of gross misconduct should be investigated as part of a formal procedure
Workers: a term that includes employees and also other groups such as agency

73

327


--- New Page 74 ---
Page number: 74
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

workers or anyone carrying out work who is not genuinely self-employed.
Workers who are not employees often have flexible employment contracts that
allow them to accept or reject any offer of work made to them, and have less
statutory employment rights than employees.

74

328


--- New Page 75 ---
Page number: 75
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

Further information

Acas learning online

Acas offers free E-Learning on a wide range of topics including, Discipline &
Grievance and Conflict Resolution. For more information go to
https ://www.acas.org.uk/elearning

 

Acas training
Acas offers a conducting investigations course that is carried out by experienced
Acas staff who work with businesses every day.

Go to https://www.acas.org.uk/training for up-to-date information about our
training and booking places on face-to-face courses.

 

Acas business solutions

Acas specialists can visit an organisation, diagnose issues in its workplace, and
tailor training and support to address the challenges it faces. To find out more,
see the Acas website page Business solutions
https://www.acas.org.uk/businesssolutions

 

Related Acas guidance

° Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures

e Managing absence at work

° Performance management

° Bullying and harassment at work: a guide for managers and employers
¢ Bullying and harassment at work: a guide for employees

¢ Guidance on discrimination is available at https://www.acas.org.uk/equality

 

Additional help

Employers may be able to seek assistance from groups where they are
members. For example, if an employer is a member of the Confederation of
British Industry or the Federation of Small Businesses, it could seek its help and
guidance.

If an employee is a trade union member, they can seek help and guidance from
their trade union representative or equality representative.

Keep up-to-date and stay informed
Visit https: //www.acas.org.uk for:

75

329


--- New Page 76 ---
Page number: 76
Title of ebook of origin: 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.pdf

Discipline and grievances at work

« Employment relations and employment law guidance - free to view,
download or share

* Tools and resources including free-to-download templates, forms and
checklists

e An introduction to other Acas services including mediation, conciliation,
training, arbitration and the Acas Early Conciliation service

e Research and discussion papers on the UK workplace and employment
practices

¢ Details of Acas training courses, conferences and events.

Sign up for the free Acas e-newsletter. The Acas email newsletter is a great
way of keeping up to date with changes to employment law and to hear about
events in your area. Find out more at: https://www.acas.org.uk/subscribe

 

The Acas Model Workplace. This engaging and interactive tool can help an
employer diagnose employment relations issues in its workplace. The tool will
work with you to identify areas of improvement you can consider, and will point
toward the latest guidance and best practice:
https://www.acas.org.uk/modelworkplace

 

Acas Helpline. Call the Acas Helpline for free and impartial advice. We can
provide employers and employees with clear and confidential guidance about
any kind of dispute or relationship issue in the workplace. You may want to know
about employment rights and rules, best practice or may need advice about a
dispute. Whatever it is, our team are on hand. Find out more:
https://www.acas.org.uk/helpline

 

Look for us on:
Facebook https://www.facebook.com/acasorquk

 

LinkedIn https://www.linkedin.com/company/acas/

 

Twitter https: //twitter.com/acasorguk

 

YouTube https://www.youtube.com/user/acasorguk

 

76

338

--- End of 30.acas_discipline_and_grievance_at_work.txt ---


--- Start of 31.acas_guide_for_dismissals.txt ---



--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 31.acas_guide_for_dismissals.pdf

acas

Dismissals

1. What dismissal is

A dismissal is when an employer ends an employee's contract. It usually means the same as being sacked or fired.
It's important that an employer uses a fair and reasonable procedure to decide whether to dismiss someone.
Before an employer dismisses an employee, they should:

e believe they have a valid reason — read about types of dismissal and reasons to dismiss someone fairly
e follow a full and fair procedure, usually in line with the Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures
e make a decision that's balanced, consistent and as fair as possible

 

 

The procedure an employer follows will be taken into account if an employee claims for unfair dismissal and the case reaches an
employment tribunal.

Giving the reasons for dismissal

If an employer dismisses an employee, they should tell the employee:

e why they've been dismissed

e when their employment contract will end
e their notice period, if there is one

e their right to appeal the decision

It's a good idea to put it in writing.
When an employer must put the reasons in writing

An employer must put the reasons in writing for an employee who's pregnant or on maternity leave, regardless of how long they've
been employed.

Other employees have the right to ask their employer for a written statement giving the reasons for their dismissal if they have:

e 'employee' employment status
e been employed for 2 years

 

If an employee asks, their employer must give them the reasons in writing within 14 days.

If an employee believes the dismissal is unfair

An employee can appeal against a dismissal.

Page 1

331


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 31.acas_guide_for_dismissals.pdf

If the employer does not follow a fair and reasonable procedure the employee might be able to make a claim for unfair dismissal, even
if the reason for dismissal was valid.

Find out what employees can do if they think a dismissal is unfair

 

Telling other people at work

Employers should respect the confidentiality of the person who's been dismissed. For example, when they tell colleagues and clients
that the employee has left. Any outcome of a disciplinary procedure must remain confidential.

Find out more about talking to staff after a disciplinary procedure

 

Settlement agreements

A settlement agreement is sometimes used when an employer and employee agree to end their employment relationship because they
both agree it's no longer working. This can include some dismissal situations.

Find out more about settlement agreements

 

If you're thinking about using a settlement agreement, you should get legal advice.

2. Types of dismissal

By law (Employment Rights Act 1996), the following are potential reasons to dismiss someone fairly:

e conduct — when the employee has done something that's inappropriate or not acceptable

e capability — when the employee is not able to do the job or does not have the right qualifications

e redundancy — when the job is no longer needed

e alegal reason — when the employee cannot do their job legally, for example a lorry driver who's banned from driving
e 'some other substantial reason’ — a term used for a wide variety of other situations

Examples of other substantial reasons are:

e a fixed-term contract ending
e third party pressure, for example if a client refuses to work with an employee
e an employee refusing to agree to new terms and conditions of employment

Gross misconduct

Gross misconduct is when an employee has done something that's very serious or has very serious effects.
Examples could include:

e fraud

e physical violence

e serious lack of care to their duties or other people (‘gross negligence’)

e serious insubordination, for example refusing to take lawful and reasonable orders from a supervisor

Your organisation might have its own policy or rules with other examples of gross misconduct.

Page 2

332


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 31.acas_guide_for_dismissals.pdf

Gross misconduct will usually only be relevant in dismissals related to conduct — in other words, an employee's behaviour at work.

An employer must still follow a fair and reasonable procedure if someone is accused of gross misconduct.

Redundancy

Redundancy is usually a type of dismissal when a role is no longer needed. Employers should only consider making redundancies if
part or all of the organisation is:

e closing, or has already closed
e changing the types or number of roles needed to do certain work
e changing location

In this case, the employer must follow a full redundancy process.

If an employer has concerns about an employee's conduct or performance, they need to follow a disciplinary or capability procedure.

 

Find out more about:

e checking whether redundancies are needed — for employers
e redundancy rights for employees

 

 

Dismissal because of long-term illness

Dismissal should be a last resort. The employer should firstly support the employee and help them get back to work. This could include
making any 'reasonable adjustments' if they have a disability (this includes some long-term health conditions).

For example, an employer may be able to dismiss someone fairly if:

e they've considered all other options
e it's not possible for the employee to do their job
e the employee's inability to work has a significant impact on the business

Dismissal because of long-term illness would usually be a capability issue. This means it would depend on whether or not the
employee is able to do their job.

Employers must investigate fully and have a valid reason for dismissal. The employee could make a claim to an employment tribunal if
they think they've been unfairly dismissed.

Dismissing someone because they're disabled (this includes some long-term health conditions) could be discrimination.

Find out more about disability discrimination

 

3. Dismissals with and without notice

When an employer dismisses an employee, they should give them notice of when their job will end.

Find out more about notice periods

 

Notice pay

Page 3

333


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 31.acas_guide_for_dismissals.pdf

In most cases, the person who's been dismissed is entitled to the same pay they'd normally get if they work their notice period.
The employee's final pay may be different from their usual monthly or weekly pay because of things like:

e how much holiday they've taken
e money being deducted for training courses
e being off work

They may need to get paid other outstanding money, for example bonuses or pay for working overtime.

Find out more about final pay when someone leaves a job

 

Dismissal without notice for gross misconduct

An employer can dismiss an employee without giving notice if it's because of gross misconduct (when an employee has done
something that's very serious or has very serious effects). The employer must have followed a fair procedure.

When an employee is dismissed for gross misconduct, they:

e leave immediately
e do not have a notice period
e do not get paid notice pay

There are some things the employer must still pay them for. These include:

e any work they have not been paid for yet
e any holiday they have built up (‘accrued’) but not used by the date they leave
e any expenses they're owed

The employer may also need to pay them for other work benefits, unless their contract says something different.

4. Unfair dismissal

It's important to understand what unfair dismissal is by law. This is because different rights might apply depending on the
circumstances.

It might be unfair dismissal if an employee worked for their employer for at least 2 years and any of the following apply:

e there was no fair reason for the dismissal
e the reason was not enough to justify dismissing them
e the employer did not follow a fair procedure

The fair procedure must follow the Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures, if it's to do with:

 

e unacceptable or inappropriate behaviour (‘misconduct’)
e performance (‘capability’), unless it’s about illness

If the dismissal is because of another reason, it's a good idea to use the Code of Practice to inform the fair procedure.

Dismissal before someone has worked 2 years

Page 4

334


--- New Page 5 ---
Page number: 5
Title of ebook of origin: 31.acas_guide_for_dismissals.pdf

If someone is dismissed before they have worked for their employer for 2 years, they will need to check what rights are available to
them. This is sometimes known as ‘short service dismissal’.

Depending on the reason for the dismissal, one of the following might apply:

e automatically unfair dismissal
e wrongful dismissal

Appealing a dismissal

If an employee thinks their dismissal was unfair and wants to challenge it, they can appeal through their employer's appeal process.
The employer should tell them how to appeal.

Being able to appeal a dismissal is also part of the Acas Code of Practice.
The employee may want to speak to their trade union if they have one or get legal advice.

Find out more about appealing a dismissal

 

Automatically unfair reasons

Some things are 'automatically unfair’ if they're the main reason for dismissing an employee.
These include:

e making a flexible working request
e being pregnant or on maternity leave
e wanting to take family leave, for example parental, paternity or adoption leave

 

e being a trade union member or representative

e taking part in legal, official industrial action for 12 weeks or less, for example going on strike
e asking for a legal right, for example to be paid the National Minimum Wage

e doing jury service

e being involved in whistleblowing

e being forced to retire (known as ‘compulsory retirement’)

e taking action, or proposing to take action, over a health and safety issue

An employee does not need 2 years' service to claim automatically unfair dismissal.

Unfair dismissal because of a health and safety issue

An employer must not cause someone ‘detriment’ if they:

e reasonably believe being at work or doing certain tasks would put them in serious and imminent danger
e take reasonable steps over a health and safety issue, for example complaining about unsafe working conditions
e inform their employer about a health and safety issue in an appropriate way

Detriment means you experience one or both of the following:

e being treated worse than before
e having their situation made worse

Examples of detriment could be:

Page 5

335


--- New Page 6 ---
Page number: 6
Title of ebook of origin: 31.acas_guide_for_dismissals.pdf

e their employer reduces their hours

e they experience bullying

e they experience harassment

e their employer turns down their training requests without good reason
e they are overlooked for promotions or development opportunities

If an employee is dismissed and one of these health and safety issues is the main reason, it might be classed as ‘automatically unfair’.

Unfair dismissal because of industrial action

Employees cannot be dismissed for taking part in industrial action if:

e it's called as a result of a properly organised ballot

e it's about a dispute between them and their employer (for example, about terms and conditions)

e the employer receives a legally required, detailed notice about the industrial action at least 7 days before it begins
e they take part in the action at any time within the 12 weeks from when it began

Non-union members have the same rights as union members not to be dismissed if they take part in legal, official industrial action.

After 12 weeks, employees could be dismissed for taking part in industrial action if the employer has tried to settle the dispute. For
example, the employer may have asked Acas to help find a solution.

Find out more about collective conciliation

 

Constructive dismissal

If an employee feels they have no choice but to resign because of something very serious their employer has done, they might be able
to claim for ‘constructive dismissal’.

The legal term is 'constructive unfair dismissal’.

Find out more about constructive dismissal

 

Making a claim to an employment tribunal

If the employee has tried to appeal and wants to take it further, they may want to make a claim to an employment tribunal.
An employee usually has the right to make an unfair dismissal claim to an employment tribunal if:

e they have 'employee' employment status
e they've worked for their employer for 2 years

 

If they've been dismissed for an ‘automatically unfair’ reason it does not matter how long they've worked for their employer.
If someone thinks they've been discriminated against

If someone thinks they've been unfairly dismissed because of race, sex or another ‘protected characteristic’, this could be
discrimination. They could make a claim to an employment tribunal for both discrimination and unfair dismissal.

For the discrimination claim, they do not need to have worked for their employer for 2 years.

Find out more about discrimination and the law

 

Page 6

336


--- New Page 7 ---
Page number: 7
Title of ebook of origin: 31.acas_guide_for_dismissals.pdf

When to make a claim

There are strict time limits for making a claim to an employment tribunal. Someone has 3 months minus 1 day from the date their
employment ended.

In almost all cases, the date someone's employment ends is either:

e the last day of their notice period
e the day they were dismissed if the employer did not give notice

Find out more about:

e making a claim to an employment tribunal

 

e employment tribunal time limits

 

Wrongful dismissal

A ‘wrongful dismissal’ is when an employer has breached an employee's contract. It's usually to do with notice or notice pay.
Examples of wrongful dismissal can include:

e dismissing an employee without giving them a notice period or notice pay
e not giving someone the full notice period they're entitled to

If an employee wants to make a claim for wrongful dismissal, it does not matter how long they've worked for their employer.

Contact the Acas helpline

If you have any questions about unfair dismissal, you can contact the Acas helpline.

Related content
/disciplinary-and-grievance-procedures
/appealing-a-disciplinary-or-grievance-outcome

 

 

5. Constructive dismissal

If an employee feels they have no choice but to resign because of something their employer has done, they might be able to claim for
‘constructive dismissal’.

The legal term is 'constructive unfair dismissal’.

What constructive dismissal is

An employee can make a constructive dismissal claim if they resign because they think their employer has seriously breached their
employment contract.

Examples could include:

e regularly not being paid the agreed amount without a good reason
e being bullied or discriminated against
e raising a grievance that the employer refuses to look into

Page 7

337


--- New Page 8 ---
Page number: 8
Title of ebook of origin: 31.acas_guide_for_dismissals.pdf

e making unreasonable changes to working patterns or place of work without agreement

It could be because of one serious incident or a series of things.

If you're in this situation

Resigning is a big step to take, and a constructive dismissal claim can be difficult to win at an employment tribunal.
You can raise a problem informally by talking to your employer.

If you've already tried to resolve things informally you can raise a grievance. This is where you make a formal complaint to your
employer.

If you're going to resign, you should get legal advice first.

Settlement agreements

A settlement agreement is sometimes used to end an employment relationship in a way the employer and employee both agree with.
If you sign a settlement agreement, you cannot make a constructive dismissal claim to an employment tribunal.

Find out more about settlement agreements

 

If you resign

In your resignation letter you should explain clearly your reasons for leaving.
If there's been a serious breach of contract you may want to leave your job straight away instead of working your notice period.

Doing this could be a breach of your employment contract but it can be justified sometimes. You should get legal advice.

Making a constructive dismissal claim

You usually have the right to make a constructive dismissal claim to an employment tribunal if:

e you have 'employee' employment status
e you've worked for your employer for 2 years

 

There are strict time limits for making a claim to an employment tribunal. In most cases, you have 3 months minus 1 day from either:

e the last day of your notice period
e the day you resigned, if you did not give your employer notice

Find out more about:

e making a claim to an employment tribunal
e employment tribunal time limits

 

 

Page 8

338

--- End of 31.acas_guide_for_dismissals.txt ---


--- Start of 32.acas_investigations_at_work.txt ---



--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 32.acas_investigations_at_work.pdf

acas

Investigations at work

1. Step 1: Deciding to investigate

When there is a possible work disciplinary or grievance issue, the employer should do an ‘investigation’. This is where they find out all
they reasonably can about the issue.

An investigation is to:

e see if there is a case to answer

e make sure everyone is treated fairly

e gather evidence from all sides

e help the employer to see what should happen next

At any stage the employer can still look at whether:

e the formal procedure needs to carry on
e the issue can be resolved informally instead

Following a fair procedure

To protect everyone involved in a disciplinary or grievance case, the employer must make sure they follow a fair procedure. The
investigation is an important part of this.

If the employer does not carry out a reasonable investigation, any decisions they make in the disciplinary or grievance case are likely
to be unfair. This could risk legal action.

Investigations are covered by the Acas Code of Practice on disciplinary and grievance procedures, which is the minimum an
organisation must follow. Your organisation might have its own policy or procedure.

 

If a disciplinary or grievance case reaches an employment tribunal, judges will look at whether the employer has followed the Acas
Code of Practice in a fair way.

Training for employers and managers

You can get Acas training on conducting investigations and following a fair disciplinary or grievance procedure.

 

2. Step 2: Preparing to investigate

If the employer has decided to investigate a disciplinary or grievance issue, they should start as soon as possible.

Page 1

339


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 32.acas_investigations_at_work.pdf

This is to make sure they're treating the employee fairly. For example, people might remember a situation more clearly the sooner
they're asked about it.

Who can carry out the investigation

Where possible, the employer should get somebody who's not involved in the case to carry out the investigation, for example another
manager or someone from HR.

This is to keep things as fair as possible. In smaller organisations, the employer might have to do it themselves.

Where possible, the person investigating should also have had training. Acas offers training courses in handling disciplinary and
grievance procedures, including courses on conducting investigations.

In a disciplinary case
In a disciplinary case, the employer should think about who will handle matters if further action is needed.

Where possible, a different person should handle each step of the disciplinary procedure that's needed:

e the investigation
e the disciplinary hearing and outcome
e the appeal hearing (if an appeal is raised)

 

Where possible, the employer should assign a more senior person to handle the disciplinary hearing and outcome than the person
assigned to the investigation.

In a grievance case

For a grievance investigation, it is usually best for the person hearing the grievance to investigate the issue.

You can find more details on choosing who to carry out the investigation in the Acas guide to conducting workplace investigations.

 

Making an investigation plan

The employer and the person investigating, if there is one, should start by making an investigation plan.
This can include:

e what needs to be investigated

e who is carrying out the investigation

e 'witnesses' — anyone who needs to be spoken with to find out about the issue

e any sources of evidence, for example work records, emails or CCTV recordings

e any time limits, for example CCTV footage being deleted or staff going on leave

e timeframes

e policies or organisation guidelines to follow

e whether the person investigating is expected to give recommendations at the end of the investigation
e setting out the importance of confidentiality

e any other relevant points or information

A clear plan can help to:

Page 2

348


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 32.acas_investigations_at_work.pdf

e make the investigation as quick and easy as possible
e make clear exactly what needs to be done

e make sure the process is full and fair

e avoid negative effects on staff or the business

Employers and investigators can:

e find more details on making an investigation plan in the Acas guide to conducting workplace investigations
e download and use the Acas template for an investigation plan

 

 

Telling the employee

The employer or person investigating should tell the employee with the disciplinary or grievance issue as soon as they decide to open
an investigation.

This is unless the employer thinks there is a risk that the employee might tamper with evidence or influence witnesses. In this case, the
employer should wait until there is less risk of this.

When the employer tells the employee they are opening an investigation, it’s a good idea for them to explain:

e why they're carrying out an investigation

e who will be carrying it out

e what they're going to do

e that they'll need to talk to any witnesses

e how long it could take

e what will happen next, for example a meeting
e that everything will be kept confidential

Employers can use the Acas letter templates for:

e disciplinary cases — informing an employee they are the subject of an investigation
e grievance or disciplinary cases — inviting an employee to an investigation meeting

An investigation can be stressful for the employee in either disciplinary or grievance cases. It's important for employers to consider the
wellbeing and mental health of their employees and offer support where needed.

Deciding whether to suspend an employee

If there's a serious issue or situation, an employer might consider suspending someone while they investigate.
An employer should consider each situation carefully. Suspension will only be needed in some situations.
If an employer feels they need to suspend someone, it's important to consider:

e alternative options to suspension
e the wellbeing of the person they're thinking of suspending — being suspended can be stressful and affect someone's mental
health

Find out more about suspension during an investigation

 

Page 3

341


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 32.acas_investigations_at_work.pdf

3. Step 3: Carrying out an investigation

In a disciplinary or grievance investigation, the person investigating should do their best to:

e be fair and objective

e follow any policies or guidelines your organisation might have

e get as much information on the case as is reasonable

e not try to prove guilt, but get balanced evidence from both sides
e keep the case confidential

In a disciplinary procedure, the person investigating should be finding out if there is an issue that needs to be addressed, not trying to
prove guilt.

How long an investigation needs to take

While an investigation should be completed as quickly as possible, it always needs to be thorough and fair.
Some investigations might take longer depending on the case and how many people need to give information.

For example, a simple case might only take a day to gather enough information, whereas a more complicated case could take several
weeks.

Your organisation might have timescales for investigations written in their policy. Otherwise, the employer or person investigating
should set a reasonable timescale and tell the employee.

If it's found that more time is needed during the investigation, this should be allowed for. Any delays should be explained to anyone
involved and written in the investigation report.

Getting physical evidence

The person investigating should get all the information they reasonably can and need for the case.
They should work out what physical evidence is needed based on:

e what's laid out in the investigation plan
e what sources of information they can use
e any time limits, for example records getting deleted

More evidence might come to light as the investigation goes on, so the person investigating should allow for this.
Types of physical evidence could include:

e emails

e paperwork

e receipts

e computer records
e phone records

e CCTV recordings
e attendance records

Page 4

342


--- New Page 5 ---
Page number: 5
Title of ebook of origin: 32.acas_investigations_at_work.pdf

The person investigating must consider the ways they can get information and:

e follow the law — for example, on data protection or employment contracts
e respect the employee's right to privacy

You can find out more on:

e data protection on the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) website

 

e gathering evidence in the right way in the Acas guide to conducting workplace investigations

 

The person investigating should keep a written record of how and why they got any evidence.

Holding investigation meetings

In both disciplinary and grievance investigations, the person investigating might also need to get information from:

e the employee
e 'witnesses' — other employees involved
e other witnesses, for example clients or customers

If you need to invite someone to an investigation meeting, you should:

e let them know in writing — for example, a letter or email
e confirm the date, time and location
e give them reasonable notice

The right to be accompanied

"The right to be accompanied’ means that by law, an employee or worker can bring a ‘companion’ (relevant person):

e to any meetings — in a grievance procedure
e to a meeting or hearing that will give or confirm a formal warning or other disciplinary action — in a disciplinary procedure

In a disciplinary investigation meeting, there is no legal right to be accompanied but it's good practice for employers to allow it.
If there's the right to be accompanied

If the employee or worker has the right to be accompanied, they must choose their companion from one of the following:

e someone they work with
e a workplace trade union representative who's certified or trained in acting as a companion
e an official employed by a trade union

Under discrimination law, employers must make reasonable adjustments for disabled employees. This might mean allowing someone
else to attend, for example a support worker or someone with knowledge of the disability and its effects.

Employers can, but do not have to, allow companions who do not fall within the above categories. For example, some employment
contracts might allow for a professional support body, partner or legal representative.

Find out more about the right to be accompanied in the Acas guide to discipline and grievances at work.

 

If an employee cannot attend an investigation meeting

Page 5

343


--- New Page 6 ---
Page number: 6
Title of ebook of origin: 32.acas_investigations_at_work.pdf

If an employee needs to go to an investigation meeting but they do not attend, the person investigating should rearrange the meeting.
The employer or person investigating should see if it would help to make other arrangements.

For example, if the employee is off with stress and is worried about coming to the workplace, they could hold the meeting somewhere
else.

If the employee is too sick, or continues to be not able or not willing to attend, the person investigating will need to look at all other
evidence and make a reasonable decision.

They could also look at:

e the seriousness of the disciplinary or grievance issue

e any rules your organisation has about not attending investigation meetings

e how your organisation dealt with similar cases in the past

e getting a medical opinion on whether the employee is fit to attend the meeting — with the employee's permission

The employer might decide they need to carry on with the investigation without the employee. If they do, they should tell the employee.

The employer must carry out the investigation in as full and fair a way as possible.

Looking after employees’ wellbeing and mental health

Being under investigation can be very stressful, so it's important that employers consider the wellbeing and mental health of their
employees.

Looking out for employees' wellbeing and offering support can help prevent:

e absence
e mental health problems arising
e existing mental health problems getting worse

For example, as well as regular communication, the employer could arrange any meetings in a more private and comfortable location if
this would help an employee.

Find more advice on supporting mental health at work

 

Related content
Training — conducting investigations

 

4. Step 4: If there are witnesses
Witnesses can give important evidence that might help decide the outcome of a disciplinary or grievance case.

If there's any witnesses with information about the discipline or grievance issue, the person investigating can ask them to write it down
in a witness statement’.

The person investigating can also have a meeting with a witness to ask them what they know or saw. Someone should take notes
during the meeting. At the end of the meeting, the witness should sign the notes and these can also form a witness statement.

Page 6

344


--- New Page 7 ---
Page number: 7
Title of ebook of origin: 32.acas_investigations_at_work.pdf

Taking a witness statement

The person investigating might decide a witness can give a statement without having a meeting. For example, if the witness:

e is not an employee, for example a customer or client
e only needs to give very simple information
e is ill and cannot come to an investigation meeting

The person investigating should ask the witness to write:

e answers to specific questions, where necessary

e their name and, where applicable, job title

e the date, place and time of any relevant issues

e what they saw, heard or know

e the reason why they were able to see, hear or know about the issues
e the date and time of writing their statement

e their signature

The witness should have reasonable time to give the statement.

Talking to a large number of witnesses

If a large number of people witnessed the same incident, the person investigating should:

e talk to some of the witnesses
e check whether they're broadly saying the same thing

The person investigating does not have to talk to all witnesses, unless either of the following apply:

e they feel they're not getting enough information
e there are significant differences in what the witnesses say

Taking records

The person investigating can make audio recordings of interviews or assign a person to take notes, depending on:

e what is most appropriate or possible
e what the organisation's policy or rules allow
e if the person being interviewed agrees

Find out more on recording investigation meetings in the Acas guide to conducting workplace investigations.

 

Sharing information and confidentiality

When getting information from a witness, it's a good idea to get their consent to be able to share it if necessary. For example, in case
other people working on the investigation need to look at the information.

The employee under a disciplinary investigation or who has raised a grievance case should be given a copy of any written evidence,
including witness statements.

If someone believes they've been named in a report, they have the right to see any parts that:

Page 7

345


--- New Page 8 ---
Page number: 8
Title of ebook of origin: 32.acas_investigations_at_work.pdf

e have information about them
e depended on information they gave

They should not be allowed to see private information about other people.

The employer should keep investigation reports for a while, in case there are any questions in the future. How long they keep reports
might be set out in a workplace policy.

If the report includes people's details, the employer should store it securely and only allow access when necessary. Anyone who has
access needs to follow data protection law (UK GDPR).

The report should be securely disposed of once it's no longer needed or is out of date. For example, it could be shredded.

Find out more about data protection on the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) website

 

More advice on carrying out investigations

Read the Acas guide to conducting workplace investigations for more on:

 

e interviewing witnesses
e if a witness refuses to give a statement

5. Step 5: After an investigation

If the employer or person investigating feels they need more information, they can go back and investigate again.
They should:

e try to do this in reasonable time
e tell the employee about any delays completing the investigation

Making an investigation report

When there's enough information and the investigation is finished, the employer should have a written report. The employer should
share this report with the employee.

For more help writing investigation reports, you can use:

e the Acas guide to conducting workplace investigations
e our template for investigation reports

 

 

If the employer had a person carrying out the investigation for them, that person can give recommendations for next steps, if this was
agreed in the investigation plan.

Giving recommendations

If the person investigating is to give recommendations at the end of the investigation, they should recommend one of the following:

e formal action
e informal action
e no further action

Page 8

346


--- New Page 9 ---
Page number: 9
Title of ebook of origin: 32.acas_investigations_at_work.pdf

Formal action

Formal action could be:

e to initiate a disciplinary hearing
e changes to an organisation's policy or procedure
e further investigation into other matters that were found

Informal action

Informal action could be:

e training or coaching for parties involved

e counselling for parties involved

e mediation for parties involved

e notification that further similar action might end in disciplinary action

No further action
The outcome of the investigation might be that no further action is needed.

However, the person investigating might still suggest anything that could help the organisation and the people involved, for example:

e counselling
e mediation
e another form of support

Carrying on with the disciplinary or grievance procedure

Now they have more information, the employer should check again if the issue can be resolved informally.

After an investigation, the employer might find there's no evidence to carry on with the disciplinary or grievance procedure. In this case,
they should end the procedure and tell the employee in question there'll be no further action.

The employer might find there's an issue that cannot be resolved informally. In this case they should follow the next steps in the
disciplinary or grievance procedure.

Find out more about:

e the disciplinary hearing
e the grievance meeting

Page 9

347

--- End of 32.acas_investigations_at_work.txt ---


--- Start of 33.acas_whistleblowing_at_work.txt ---



--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 33.acas_whistleblowing_at_work.pdf

acas

Whistleblowing at work

1. The law

Whistleblowing is the action someone takes to report wrongdoing at work that affects others. For example, it could affect the general
public.

Legally this is known as 'making a disclosure in the public interest’.

The action of whistleblowing is sometimes called ‘blowing the whistle’.

Who is protected by law

By law, most people are protected if they make a qualifying disclosure. This includes:

e workers

e employees

e agency workers

e apprentices

e NHS practitioners

e student nurses

e student midwives

¢ police

e office holders

e self-employed doctors, dentists, ophthalmologists and pharmacists working in the NHS

Protection starts from the beginning of employment.
People are still protected even if they no longer work for the employer they're making a disclosure about.

For example, you would still be protected if you believe your previous employer gave an inaccurate job reference because you made a
disclosure when working for them.

Who is not protected by law

People are not usually protected in law if they're:

e genuinely self-employed

e avolunteer with no enforceable employment contract

e anon-executive director

e amember of the armed forces

e asolicitor or barrister learning about an issue covered by professional privilege

e acrown employee dealing with national security — for example, people who work for MI5, MI6 or GCHQ

Page 1

348


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 33.acas_whistleblowing_at_work.pdf

An employer might have a policy that says someone who is not protected by law can still make a disclosure to them. This is usually
because the employer wants to try and resolve problems directly. In these circumstances the person must follow the process in that
policy to make a disclosure.

What the law protects whistleblowers from

By law (the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998), whistleblowers are protected from:

e unfair dismissal — if someone is dismissed for whistleblowing, it will be treated as an automatic unfair dismissal
e detriment

Detriment means someone experiences one or both of the following because they made a disclosure:

e being treated worse than before
e having their situation made worse

Examples of detriment could be:

e their employer reduces their hours

e they experience bullying

e they experience harassment

e their employer turns down their training requests without good reason

If you're legally classed as a worker you cannot claim unfair dismissal. However, you might be able to argue that you being dismissed
was a detriment. This is a complicated area of employment law. If you want to take further action you should get legal advice.

How whistleblowers can claim protection

To claim protection, whistleblowers must show they:

e made a qualifying disclosure
e were dismissed or suffered a detriment as a result of making the disclosure

Find out:

e what someone can make a disclosure about
e how to make a whistleblowing disclosure

 

 

Employment tribunal time limit

You would usually have 3 months from the date of the unfair dismissal or detriment to make a claim to an employment tribunal.

Find out more about making a claim to an employment tribunal

 

2. What someone can whistleblow about

By law, there are several issues you can whistleblow about. These are called ‘qualifying disclosures’.
Qualifying disclosures include:

e acriminal offence — for example, if an employer has been trying to bribe people

Page 2

349


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 33.acas_whistleblowing_at_work.pdf

e the breach of a legal obligation by an organisation — for example, if an employer has neglected their duty of care towards
children in a care home

e amiscarriage of justice — for example, if a member of staff has been fired for something that turned out to be a computer error

e someone's health and safety being in danger — for example, if an employer has forced staff to serve food they know has been
contaminated

e damage to the environment — for example, if an employer has been regularly polluting local rivers

You can also whistleblow about someone trying to cover up information about any of these issues.

You can make a qualifying disclosure about an issue that's happened at any time. This includes if it's likely to happen in the future. It
can also be about something that takes place overseas.

You can report one or more qualifying disclosures.

When a qualifying disclosure is protected

By law, you'll be protected as a whistleblower if you can show it's reasonable for you to believe that what you disclose:

e fits into one of the categories of a qualifying disclosure
e is in the public interest

In the public interest means it has to also affect others. For example other workers, customers or the general public. A problem or
grievance that is personal to only you is unlikely to count as being in the public interest.

Something is more likely to be in the public interest:

e the more serious the issue is

e if you're reporting something that was done deliberately

e if the issue involves a large, influential or well-known employer
e if there are a large number of people affected by the concerns

When you will not be protected

You will not be protected when making a qualifying disclosure if you:

e commit a criminal offence by disclosing the information — for example hacking into computer files
e breach legal professional privilege — for example if you're a legal adviser and learn about something when giving legal advice

In Scotland, legal professional privilege is sometimes called 'confidentiality as between client and professional legal adviser’.

Resolving a personal problem at work

If your concern is a personal problem only and not in the public interest, it will not be covered by whistleblowing law. In these cases
you might be able to resolve the problem another way.

Find out more about how to raise a problem at work

 

Whistleblowing about health and safety breaches

By law (Employment Rights Act 1996), people legally classed as employees or workers are protected if they whistleblow about health

 

and safety.

Page 3

3508


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 33.acas_whistleblowing_at_work.pdf

Find out more about reporting an issue about health and safety from the Health and Safety Executive

 

3. How to make a disclosure

By law (the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998), you can make a whistleblowing disclosure to one of the following:

e your employer

e alegal adviser

e government ministers — this only applies if you work for a statutory body

e another person who is responsible for the wrongdoing

e aprescribed person or body

e any other person or body if there's a good reason to, or if it's related to an ‘exceptionally serious failure’ — for example, the
police or media

You must also make sure your disclosure is made with 'reasonable belief’ and is:

e a qualifying disclosure
e in the public interest

Find out more about what you can whistleblow about

 

Deciding who to make a disclosure to

When making a disclosure, it's good practice to consider the list in order. But there might be cases when you do not want to go to your
employer first.

You will have to meet more requirements if you make a disclosure to someone further down the list. The only exception to this is legal
advisers, who you can speak to at any time.

For example, if you had a health and safety concern, you could make a disclosure to your employer. If the problem is not resolved, you
could then make the same disclosure to the Health and Safety Executive which is a prescribed body.

You might have to give reasons for who you made the disclosure to if the case reaches an employment tribunal.
You can skip people in the list if you think it's not appropriate to disclose to them. But you should consider every option first.

For example, other employees made disclosures to your employer. As a result, they were threatened by managers who they exposed
in the disclosures. You might decide you have no choice but to skip disclosing to your employer.

Your employer

You should consider making the disclosure to your employer first. In most cases this will mean your concerns are dealt with quickly
and by the best person.

You should make it as clear as possible to your employer that you're making a disclosure. You could do this by:

e following the process in your organisation's whistleblowing policy, if there is one
e writing a letter to the most appropriate person in your organisation stating that you're making a disclosure — this might be a line
manager or someone named in your organisation's whistleblowing policy

Page 4

351


--- New Page 5 ---
Page number: 5
Title of ebook of origin: 33.acas_whistleblowing_at_work.pdf

Your disclosure does not need to be in writing. For example, you could make a disclosure to your employer in a private meeting.
However it's better to put it in writing so you have evidence that you made the disclosure. This could be a letter or an email.

Another person who is responsible for the wrongdoing

You can make a disclosure to another person other than your employer. You must reasonably believe that the wrongdoing relates to
their conduct.

For example, you've been working with a contractor company who you believe is responsible for a health and safety breach. If you
wanted to whistleblow, you could make the disclosure to them instead of your employer.

When you make the disclosure, you must reasonably believe that the person is responsible for the wrongdoing.
Even though you did not make the disclosure to your employer, you would still be protected by whistleblowing law if they:

e dismissed you because you had made the disclosure
e subjected you to detriment because you had made the disclosure

Find out more about the law on whistleblowing

 

A legal adviser

Your disclosure will be protected if you make it to a legal adviser while you're getting legal advice.

A legal adviser will not be protected if they make a disclosure about something they have learnt when giving legal advice.

A prescribed person or body

In some cases you might need to make a disclosure to an official person or body who has responsibility for your concerns. For
example:

e acommissioner

e an auditor

e aregulator

e a government authority

Some of these official bodies are known as a ‘prescribed person or body’. It's easier to be protected as a whistleblower if you raise a
concern with them.

You must make sure that you have picked the correct prescribed person or body to get the most protection. For example, you can
disclose breaches of health and safety regulations to the Health and Safety Executive or an appropriate local authority.

It's also important to follow the instructions given by the prescribed person or body on how to make a disclosure. For example, they
could ask you to fill out a form or call a specific number.

Find out more about the list of prescribed people and bodies on GOV.UK

 

A government minister

A disclosure you make to a government minister will be protected if you work for a:

e government-appointment organisation
e non-departmental public body

Page 5

352


--- New Page 6 ---
Page number: 6
Title of ebook of origin: 33.acas_whistleblowing_at_work.pdf

You can do this either directly or through departmental officials.
Any other person or body related to an exceptionally serious failure

In very rare circumstances you might want to make a disclosure to another person or body about a failure which is exceptionally
serious.

There's no legal definition of what an exceptionally serious failure is. It would be up to a court or employment tribunal to decide whether
it was reasonable for you to make the disclosure.

If you think your situation falls under this, you should consider:

e getting legal advice
e contacting Protect — a UK whistleblowing charity which offers free legal advice

How you can make a disclosure

You should put your disclosure in writing. This could be in an email or a letter.
Some prescribed persons or bodies will also have a number you can call to make a disclosure.
In your disclosure you could include:

e the background and reason behind the concern
e whether you've already raised the concern with anyone else and their response
e any relevant dates

You could also include any relevant evidence, for example documents, photographs, videos or samples. However it's important to
remember that it's not your responsibility to gather evidence. If you take documents or pass them to someone outside your
organisation, you might be in breach of your contract or other laws.

Raising a grievance

It's usually not good practice to make a qualifying disclosure through a grievance to your employer. This is because grievance
procedures are not designed to address these sorts of concerns. You might also lose some confidentiality if you raise your concern this
way.

However, a grievance can be a qualifying disclosure if it contains an appropriate disclosure of information. If you're raising a grievance
you should state that your grievance includes a disclosure.

If you cannot disclose to anyone on the list

If you feel that you cannot make a disclosure to any of the above people or bodies, you should consider:

e getting legal advice

e contacting Protect
e talking to your MP or MSP — they might be able to give advice on who to raise your concern with

Get more advice and support

If you have any questions about whistleblowing you can contact:

Page 6

353


--- New Page 7 ---
Page number: 7
Title of ebook of origin: 33.acas_whistleblowing_at_work.pdf

e the Acas helpline — for more advice on whistleblowing, dismissal and detriment
e Protect — a UK whistleblowing charity which offers free legal advice
e the National Guardian's Office — for advice on speaking up in the NHS

4. Responding to a disclosure

As an employer, whistleblowing can help you:

e identify risks and potential wrongdoing
e take action on issues within your organisation

There are several things you should do if an employee or worker makes a whistleblowing disclosure.

Handling a disclosure might seem complicated and take a lot of time. But it can help resolve problems early and stop them from getting
worse.

Follow the right process

It's important to make sure that you:

e handle any whistleblowing complaint fairly and consistently
e follow any process your organisation has for whistleblowing
e keep the identity of the whistleblower confidential

If your organisation has a whistleblowing policy

If you have a whistleblowing policy, you should make sure:

e it's followed whenever a whistleblowing complaint is made

e that staff know about the policy and any procedure to follow

e that all line managers and HR staff are fully trained and up to date with the latest procedures
e you regularly review your processes to check they are effective

If there is no whistleblowing policy

If your organisation does not have a whistleblowing policy you should put one in place as soon as possible.

If you wait until a whistleblowing complaint is made, you might not be as prepared as you could be to handle it. In some cases you
might also miss the opportunity to deal with the situation.

Creating a policy could help you:

e better recognise whistleblowing disclosures

e handle them in a fairer and more consistent way

e identify the ways staff can raise concerns safely outside of their line managers
e reassure your staff that you will listen to and protect whistleblowers

If your organisation has handled a disclosure effectively in the past, you could use that to:

e help decide how to manage any disclosures in the future
e help create a whistleblowing policy

Page 7

354


--- New Page 8 ---
Page number: 8
Title of ebook of origin: 33.acas_whistleblowing_at_work.pdf

Find out more about having a whistleblowing policy

 

If someone raises a grievance

If someone raises a grievance, you should follow the correct grievance procedure.
If you think a grievance might contain a whistleblowing disclosure, you should check with the person who raised it.

If they are making a disclosure as well as raising a grievance, you might need to follow both the grievance procedure and
whistleblowing procedure.

Someone might try to make a disclosure but raise a grievance by mistake. If this happens, you should check there is nothing in their
complaint they want to address through a grievance procedure. If there is not, you should confirm this in writing, and explain the
grievance procedure has ended and been replaced by your whistleblowing procedure.

Find out more about a formal grievance procedure

 

If the concern is a personal problem

You might find your employee or worker's concern is a personal problem and does not fall within whistleblowing law. You should still try
and find a way to resolve it.

Before dealing with the problem another way, make sure the concern is not whistleblowing.

If you think the concern is not a whistleblowing disclosure, explain this to the person who raised it. This is so they can make their
disclosure to someone else if they still think it is whistleblowing.

Find out more about dealing with a problem raised by an employee

 

Take the disclosure seriously

Always take whistleblowing disclosures seriously.
If you have a policy, follow the correct procedures and:

e listen to any concerns that your staff have raised

e consider what evidence might be available to support the concern

e reassure the whistleblower that you will keep their identity confidential

e reassure the whistleblower they will not suffer any detriment for raising concerns

e try and answer any questions the whistleblower has and explain why you cannot answer them if not
e keep the whistleblower informed about the progress of any investigation into their disclosure

e provide feedback to the whistleblower after any investigation, explaining if action has been taken

You should also train managers on whistleblowing procedures and how to respond to disclosures.
Make sure the whistleblower does not experience detriment

You must not cause an employee ‘detriment’ if they make a disclosure. Detriment means someone experiences one or both of the
following because they made a disclosure:

e being treated worse than before
e having their situation made worse

Page 8

355


--- New Page 9 ---
Page number: 9
Title of ebook of origin: 33.acas_whistleblowing_at_work.pdf

Examples of detriment could be:

e reducing their hours

e causing them to experience bullying

e causing them to experience harassment

e turning down their training requests without good reason

Vicarious liability

If someone is bullied or harassed by others at work, it might be treated as if carried out by:

e the employer
e the person who carried out the bullying or harassment
e both the employer and the person

This could make you responsible for their actions. This is known as ‘vicarious liability’.

It could also be vicarious liability if someone is bullied or harassed by a person who does not work with them. For example, a family
member of the employer or a contractor.

Find out more about handling a bullying or harassment complaint at work

 

Non-disclosure agreements

As an employer, you might use a non-disclosure agreement (NDA) to stop someone who works for you from sharing information.
By law, having a non-disclosure agreement in place cannot stop someone from whistleblowing.

Find out more about non-disclosure agreements

 

Get more advice and support

If you have any questions about whistleblowing you can contact:

e the Acas helpline — for more advice on whistleblowing and resolving problems at work

e Protect — a UK whistleblowing charity which offers free legal advice and supports employers to develop best practice
whistleblowing arrangements

e the National Guardian's Office — for advice on speaking up in the NHS

Acas also offers tailored support for employers to address specific challenges in an organisation.

5. Having a policy

It's a good idea for your organisation to have a policy that covers whistleblowing.
A policy can help show:

e staff the most effective way to raise their concerns when making a disclosure
e how managers should respond

As an employer you should support everyone to follow the whistleblowing policy. You should:

Page 9

356


--- New Page 10 ---
Page number: 10
Title of ebook of origin: 33.acas_whistleblowing_at_work.pdf

e share the policy across the whole organisation

e regularly review it

e use it as the basis for any whistleblowing training for managers
e show it to and discuss it with staff regularly

e include it in any employee induction process

If your organisation has any recognised trade unions you should work with them when developing and reviewing any policy. You
should also check if your organisation has a joint agreement with the trade unions that requires you to do this.

It's also important to make sure your organisation has a culture where people:

e trust their management
e feel safe and encouraged to speak to them about serious concerns

What a whistleblowing policy should include

A whistleblowing policy should cover:

e what whistleblowing is and how it differs from a grievance

e how it can affect employees and managers

e who the point of contact is in the organisation for whistleblowing queries

e how an employee should raise a whistleblowing disclosure

e astatement making clear the organisation wants to encourage all staff to make disclosures to them when they have concerns
e how the organisation will not tolerate whistleblowers experiencing detriment because they raised a concern

e how the organisation will investigate and respond to disclosures

e what whistleblowing support is available to staff

e how the organisation is open and trained to deal with whistleblowing

If you need support creating a whistleblowing policy, it's a good idea to get legal advice.

Page 10

357

--- End of 33.acas_whistleblowing_at_work.txt ---
