

--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 29.acas_guide_bullying_at_work.pdf

acas

Bullying at work

What bullying is

Although there is no legal definition of bullying, it can be described as unwanted behaviour from a person or group that is either:

e offensive, intimidating, malicious or insulting
e an abuse or misuse of power that undermines, humiliates, or causes physical or emotional harm to someone

Bullying might:

e be a regular pattern of behaviour or a one-off incident
e happen face-to-face, on social media, in emails or calls
e happen at work or in other work-related situations

e not always be obvious or noticed by others

It's possible someone might not know their behaviour is bullying. It can still be bullying even if they do not realise it or do not intend to
bully someone.

Examples of bullying

Examples of bullying at work could include:

e constantly criticising someone's work

e spreading malicious rumours about someone

e constantly putting someone down in meetings

e deliberately giving someone a heavier workload than everyone else

e excluding someone from team social events

e putting humiliating, offensive or threatening comments or photos on social media

Upward bullying

Bullying can also happen from staff towards someone more senior, for example a manager. This is sometimes called 'upward bullying’
or ‘subordinate bullying’.

It can be from one employee or a group of employees.
Examples of upward bullying can include:

e showing continued disrespect
e refusing to complete tasks
e spreading rumours

Page 1

258


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 29.acas_guide_bullying_at_work.pdf

e constantly undermining someone's authority
e doing things to make someone seem unskilled or unable to do their job properly

It can be difficult for someone in a senior role to realise they're experiencing bullying behaviour from their staff.

It's important to consider the real reasons for the behaviour. For example, there might be a wider issue with the culture of the
organisation that can be identified and addressed.

When bullying might be harassment

Bullying and harassment are often confused. By law (Equality Act 2010), bullying behaviour can be harassment if it relates to any of
the following ‘protected characteristics’:

e age
e disability

e gender reassignment
e race

e religion or belief

e Sex

e sexual orientation

Find out more about harassment

 

Bullying that's not classed as harassment could still lead to other legal issues. For example, severe bullying might contribute towards
constructive dismissal.

Employer responsibilities
Employers and employees have a mutual duty to treat each other honestly and with respect.

This means employees have the right to:

e have trust and confidence in their employer
e expect not to be bullied at work

Employers have the right to:

e expect employees not to bully each other
e expect employees to treat their managers with respect and follow all reasonable instructions

Employers also have a legal duty of care to protect their employees from harm. This includes dealing with bullying issues.
Employers should:

e do all they can to try to prevent bullying happening
e take any bullying complaint seriously and look into it as soon as possible

Find out how employers should handle a bullying complaint

 

Contact the Acas helpline

If you need help with understanding bullying, you can contact the Acas helpline.

Page 2

251


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 29.acas_guide_bullying_at_work.pdf

acas

Dealing with a problem raised by an employee

Many problems at work can be resolved informally, for example through an informal chat.

An employee could raise a problem informally by telling their line manager or someone else at work, for example, another manager or
someone in HR. It does not have to be in writing at this stage.

Take the problem seriously

If an employee raises a problem informally, you should still take it seriously.

If you do not, the problem might be raised as a formal grievance later. A formal grievance might lead to the employee making a claim
to an employment tribunal if it's not resolved.

It's also important to take it seriously to help:

e keep a good working relationship with the employee
e avoid a formal grievance procedure — this can affect your organisation's reputation, take time and be difficult for everyone
involved

It's a good idea to:

e set up an informal chat or meeting to discuss their concerns
e agree to any request from the employee to bring someone they work with, a trade union representative or other relevant person
to a meeting

It's usually up to you to agree if the employee can bring someone else to the meeting. If discrimination law applies you might have to
allow someone to come with them to help remove any disadvantage.

For example, allowing a support or care worker to attend to provide support could be considered a reasonable adjustment if it would
reduce any disadvantage a disabled person might face in raising their problem.

Solving the problem should be a two-way process so that:

e you let the employee explain the problem and any solution, for example asking the employee what they would like done about it
e the employee listens to what you have to say

Keep a record

You should keep a record of how you dealt with the problem, even if it was informal.
The record should include:

e what the problem is about
e what you did, such as have an informal meeting

Page 1

252


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 29.acas_guide_bullying_at_work.pdf

e what was discussed in any informal chat or meeting
e any next steps agreed
e the reasons for any next steps

It's a good idea to make sure next steps are clear, specific and measurable. For example, 'person A will do action B by date C,
because of reason D'.

Following up

You should ask the employee if the problem is now resolved for them. If it is not, to move things forward you could:

e check any next steps have been completed
e set up more informal discussions
e find out if anything else can be done

You should remind them they can also raise the grievance formally.

If the employee raises a formal grievance

The employee might raise the grievance formally if:

e they feel raising it informally has not worked
e it's a serious issue, for example sexual assault or whistleblowing
e they do not want to resolve it informally — you can still suggest this as an option

They should raise the formal grievance:

e as soon as possible
e in writing, outlining what the problem is

If you do not follow a formal procedure, it could affect the outcome if the problem reaches an employment tribunal.
Who they should raise it with

You should have an organisation grievance policy that says who employees should raise grievances to.

If you do not have one, they should raise it to a manager. This can be either their own manager or someone else, such as an HR
manager.

Using mediation

You can use mediation at any stage of the procedure. Mediation involves an independent, impartial person helping both sides to find a
solution.

The mediator can be someone from inside or outside your organisation. If they're from outside your organisation, you might need to
pay.

Both sides will need to agree to mediation.

Find out more about mediation at work

 

Page 2

253


--- New Page 5 ---
Page number: 5
Title of ebook of origin: 29.acas_guide_bullying_at_work.pdf

Further help and support

If you need help with a problem raised by an employee, you can contact the Acas helpline to talk through your options.

Acas also provides:

e skills for line manager training
¢ conflict management training
e tailored support for employers

Page 3

254
