

--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 4.1.respnse_to_6.1.pdf

IN THE GLASGOW EMPLOYMENT TRIBUNAL

Case Number 8000485/2023

 

 

M SANGARE
Claimant
against
ARNOLD CLARK AUTOMOBILES LIMITED
Respondent
RESPONSE TO 6.1 — PAPER APART

1 THE PARTIES

1.1 The Claimant was employed by Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited. The Respondent

respectfully requests that the Tribunal amend its records to reflect the correct Respondent.

1.2 The Respondent is an automotive retailer operating more than 200 branches throughout the
UK. The Respondent employs approximately 10,000 members of staff.

1.3 The Claimant was employed by the Respondent, as a Dev Ops Engineer, from 7 December
2022 until 22 June 2023. The Claimant was based at the Respondent’s head office at
Hillington, Glasgow, with remote working from home.

1.4 The Claimant’s employment contract provided that the Claimant was entitled to one week’s
notice for each complete year of service, up to maximum of twelve weeks; and that the
Respondent reserved the right to terminate employment immediately by making a payment of
basic salary in lieu of notice.

2 PRELIMINARY ISSUES
Jurisdiction
2.1 The Claimant does not have the requisite service to bring an unfair dismissal claim in terms

of section 98 of the Employment Rights Act (‘the 1996 Act’) and any such claim that the
Claimant is attempting to advance should be dismissed entirely as a result.

ACTIVE: 116672393v2 1

45


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 4.1.respnse_to_6.1.pdf

Time Bar

2.2 The Respondent reserves its position in respect of time bar, pending receipt of further and
better particulars from the Claimant.

2.3 To the extent that any relevant acts or omissions occurred more than three months before the
presentation of the Claim Form on 25 September 2023 (subject to the extension of time as a
result of the interplay with the Early Conciliation regime from 31 July 2023 to 4 September
2023) the claims have been brought out with the time limits. Accordingly, the Tribunal does
not have jurisdiction to hear such claims.

2.4 Based on the information currently available, it is denied that any allegations of discrimination
set out in the claim form part of a continuing act ending within the relevant time limit under
section 123(3)(a) of the Equality Act 2010 (‘the 2010 Act’), or that it would be just and
equitable for the tribunal to extend time for submission of the claim under section 123(1)(b)
of the Act. It is also denied that it was not reasonably practicable for the claim to be presented
in time, in terms of the 1996 Act or that it was presented within such further period as was
reasonable in terms of the 1996 Act.

Specification

2.5 Section 8.2 of the ET1 Claim Form comprises a narration of facts and broad allegations with
many of these failing to address precisely which claims are asserted from a statutory
perspective and the underlying facts relied upon in respect of each claim. On that basis, it is
not possible for the Respondent to respond meaningfully to all of the purported claims without
further specification/clarification which we anticipate shall be required by the Tribunal at the
Preliminary Hearing.

2.6 In the meantime, the Respondent reserves its right to apply to amend its response, and to raise
any further preliminary issues as appropriate, on receipt of the necessary further
specification/clarification.

3 THE CLAIMANT’S PERFORMANCE/CAPABILITY

3.1 The Claimant’s line manager, Claire Thomson (Digital Product Development Technical
Lead), contacted the Respondent’s People Team on 12 June 2023 with concerns in relation to
the Claimant’s performance.

3.2 On 14 June 2023, Laura Cooper (People Advisor in the Respondent’s People Team) invited
the Claimant to a meeting to discuss the Claimant’s performance and continued employment.
The invite letter warned the Claimant that termination of employment was a possible outcome;
confirmed who would attend the meeting; and advised the Claimant that he could be
accompanied by a work colleague or trade union representative.

ACTIVE: 116672393v2 2

46


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 4.1.respnse_to_6.1.pdf

3.3 In particular, and as the Claimant was advised, the Respondent had concerns about the
Claimant’s failure to perform tasks in a timely manner, to utilise systems efficiently and to
perform the tasks expected in the Claimant’s role to the standards expected.

3.4 The Continued Employment meeting was held on 20 June 2023 and was chaired by Laura
Cooper. David Middleton (Head of Digital Talent) was present as management representative
and the Claimant chose to be unaccompanied. Due to time constraints the meeting was
adjourned and reconvened on 22 June 2023.

3.5 The Respondent’s concerns were discussed in detail with the Claimant and he was given the
opportunity to respond and put forward any mitigation.

3.6 During the adjournment, Laura Cooper discussed some of the Claimant’s allegations with
Claire Thomson. After doing so, she was satisfied that the Respondent’s concerns in relation
to the Claimant’s performance were well founded and that dismissal was the appropriate
outcome of the meeting.

3.7 The Respondent decided to terminate the Claimant’s employment, and this was confirmed to
the Claimant by letter on 22 June 2023 (the letter was dated 1 September 2023 in error). The
letter confirmed that his last date of employment was 22 June 2023 and the Claimant was
informed of his right to appeal.

3.8 The reason for the termination of employment was capability and specifically in relation to
the Claimant’s failure to perform tasks in a timely manner, to utilise systems efficiently and
to performance the tasks expected in his role to the standards expected.

3.9 The Claimant did not appeal against the termination of his employment.
4 OTHER ALLEGATIONS
4.1 It is denied that the Claimant’s manager never expressed concerns with the Claimant’s

performance. While the Respondent’s performance concerns had not been addressed formally
with the Claimant until the Continued Employment process, the Claimant’s line manager had
raised concerns with the Claimant informally, including pointing out to him occasions on
which tasks had not been completed properly and corrections had to be made.

4.2 The Claimant did not raise a grievance about any of the allegations in his ET1, or otherwise.

4.3 It is denied that the Claimant formally complained about “a colleague’s violent behaviour’;
or that this was “endorsed” by his manager”; or that it had anything to do with his dismissal.
The Claimant was dismissed because of his poor performance.

4.4 It is denied that there was a “constructed narrative to unjustly terminate” the Claimant. The

Claimant was dismissed, in accordance with the Respondent’s relevant procedures, because
of capability. It is denied that there were any “racial undertones in the actions of HR and [the

ACTIVE: 116672393v2 3

47


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 4.1.respnse_to_6.1.pdf

Claimant’s manager” or that race was relevant in any way to the process followed and/or the
termination of the Claimant’s employment.

4.5 It denied that the Respondent has “shielded” “others in the company whose genuine
incompetence endangered the business and staff.”

5 UNFAIR DISMISSAL

5.1 The Claimant does not have the requisite service to bring an unfair dismissal claim in terms
of section 98 of the 1996 Act and any such claim that the Claimant is attempting to advance
should be dismissed entirely as a result. To the extent any such complaint is purportedly made
by the Claimant, this is denied and resisted by the Respondent.

5.2 It is denied that the Claimant was automatically unfairly dismissed, whether because he
allegedly made a protected disclosure or otherwise. If the Claimant is attempting to advance
such a claim it is lacking in specification and he is called upon to provide the necessary
specification at or in advance of the Preliminary Hearing.

5.3 It is denied that the Claimant was unfairly dismissed, as alleged or at all. The Claimant was
dismissed for a potentially fair reason, namely capability (or, alternatively, some other
substantial reason), as explained in section 3 above.

6 WRONGFUL DISMISSAL

6.1 It is denied that the Claimant was wrongfully dismissed by the Respondent as alleged or at
all. The Claimant’s employment was terminated in accordance with the Claimant’s
employment contract.

7 DISCRIMINATION/HARASSMENT

71 The Claimant has ticked the box to say he is bringing a race discrimination claim and has
referred to “harassment” as a claim, but he has provided little to no further specification of
this. Accordingly, the Respondent’s position is that when the ET1 is read as a whole it does
not contain a claim which is recognisably a claim in terms of the 2010 Act.

7.2 In any event, the Respondent denies it has breached any provisions of the 2010 Act, as alleged
or at all.

8 REMEDY

8.1 It is denied that the Claimant is entitled to any of the remedies sought within the ET1 Claim
Form.

8.2 If the Tribunal finds that any compensation is due to the Claimant, the Respondent contends

that this should be reduced to reflect:

ACTIVE: 116672393v2 4

48


--- New Page 5 ---
Page number: 5
Title of ebook of origin: 4.1.respnse_to_6.1.pdf

8.2.1 Section 123 of the Employment Rights Act 1996;
8.2.2 the principles set out in Polkey v AE Dayton Services Ltd [1987] IRLR 503;
8.2.3 the Claimant’s contribution to any dismissal found to have taken place;

8.2.4 any failure found to have occurred in respect of any applicable provisions of the
ACAS Code of Practice relating to disciplinary and grievances, namely the Claimant
did not appeal his dismissal, nor did he raise a grievance;

8.2.5 any failure by the Claimant to have taken reasonable steps to mitigate his losses;
and/or

8.2.6 any earnings received by the Claimant subsequent to the termination of his
employment by way of alternative employment, state benefits or otherwise.

8.3 The Claimant is called upon to provide a detailed Schedule of Loss, showing the details of
any compensation sought, together with details of all income (including state benefits)
claimed and/or received, and all steps taken to mitigate his alleged losses since his
employment with the Respondent ended.

8.4 At Section 9.1 of the ET1 Claim Form, the Claimant seeks a recommendation. It is unclear
what recommendation is sought but in any event, it is denied that it would be appropriate for
the tribunal to make a recommendation given that the Claimant is no longer employed by the

Respondent.
9 GENERAL
9.1 Save as set out above no admissions are made in relation to the claim form and the grounds

of claim or remedies sought.

ACTIVE: 116672393v2 5

49
