

--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 44.customer_details_exposed_following_arnold_clark_data_breach.pdf

Customer details exposed following
Arnold Clark data breach

Car dealer Arnold Clark have contacted customers to inform them of
the details of a data breach following a cyber security incident at the
end of 2022.

In a letter to affected customers, Arnold Clark confirmed that they were subject
to a cyber-attack on 23 December 2022, involving the personal data which was
stored on their network.

The attack saw an unauthorised third-party gain access to data including:

e Names

¢ Contact details

e Dates of birth

e Vehicle details

e ID documents (such as passports and drivers’ licences)
e National insurance numbers

e Bank account details

Arnold Clark's cyber security team have advised that this data was extracted by
the hackers responsible for the attack.

This is supported by recent reports which have provided further context to the
attack. The Mail on Sunday recently reported that an individual claiming

association with the ransomware cartel Play has posted a 15GB tranche of

434


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 44.customer_details_exposed_following_arnold_clark_data_breach.pdf

customer data from the incident on to the dark web.

Arnold Clark have previously commented on the breach, issuing a statement to
Automotive Management. However, the company declined to speak on the

ransom demand.

“We take the security and safety of our customer data very seriously and
accurate identification of any potential compromise of that data remains our
primary focus." The statement read.

“Once we have a full picture of all the data that is potentially compromised, we

will be contacting our customers to make them aware."

If you have been contacted by Arnold Clark and have been informed that your
data has been compromised in the breach, you may be able to make a

compensation claim.

At Hayes Connor, our specialist data breach solicitors are currently advising
Arnold Clark customers on their rights for making a claim for compensation. We
are also ready to provide expert advice and guidance to anyone else who has
been affected.

To find out more about whether you will be in a position to make a claim and
how to get started, please get in touch.

What to do if you are concerned about
the Arnold Clark data breach

If your personal data has been compromised following the cyber-attack on
Arnold Clark, the company should have taken the steps to get in touch with you.
That being said, we know all too well that mistakes can be made. If you are yet
to be contacted by Arnold Clark and you are concerned that your data has been

435


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 44.customer_details_exposed_following_arnold_clark_data_breach.pdf

breached, the first step to take will be to get in touch with them as soon as
possible.

Following any sort of data breach, you should always be vigilant when receiving
unexpected communications, especially where they appear to be from someone
claiming to represent Arnold Clark. There is a chance that these could be
sophisticated ‘phishing attacks’ which are designed to extract further personal
information from you.

There are several ways to reduce the risk of cybercriminals using your personal
data against you. To find out more about this, read our helpful guide on what to
do if your data has been stolen in a data breach.

 

If your data has been compromised in the Arnold Clark data breach, you may be
entitled to compensation. This is something the team at Hayes Connor can help
you with.

How Hayes Connor can help you claim
compensation for the Arnold Clark data
breach

If a business or organisation stores your personal data, they are legally required
to keep it secure. This includes taking appropriate measures to prevent any
cyber-attacks and subsequent access from unauthorised third parties. If a
business fails to take these measures, anyone who is affected may have a right
to claim compensation.

At Hayes Connor, we have one of the largest teams of dedicated data breach
specialists in the country. Among our team, we have a wealth of combined
experience and expertise which we use to handle a wide variety of data breach

claims.

436


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 44.customer_details_exposed_following_arnold_clark_data_breach.pdf

Our team can work closely with you to establish your personal circumstances
and how you may have been affected by the breach. We can then use this to
confirm whether you will be in a position to make a claim and how the general

claims process works.

We understand that being the victim of a data breach is a stressful and often
traumatic experience. That is why we take the time to provide close personal
support and take all of the necessary steps to keep the process as

Straightforward as possible

You can find out more about our expertise and how we handle data breach
claims here.

To start a claim, you can use our online claim form.

To speak to a member of our team about the Arnold Clark data breach, please
do not hesitate to give us a call on 0330 041 5134.

437
