

--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 45.arnold_clark_data_breach_could_lead_to_identity_theft.pdf

Arnold Clark data breach leads to
identity theft

By Naveen Goud

 

A few days ago, the servers of car dealer ‘Arnold Clark’ were breached by
hackers and the information of 1000sof motorists was stolen that can lead to
identity thefts and online frauds. The threat actors are adamant in their
demand for charging cryptocurrency in millions and are not ready to entertain

any negotiation of hackers.

As the company failed to pay them the demanded ransom, the cyber crooks
have leaked addresses, passports, and national insurance numbers and are
threatening to leak more sensitive information in the coming weeks, if the

victim cannot pay them the demanded ransom.

Play Ransomware gang is suspected to be behind the incident. But the news

is yet to be confirmed by the sources from the Britain’s biggest car dealers.
Cybersecurity Insiders has learnt from its resources that the threat actors
have so far leaked 15GB of information out of the 467GB that they siphoned

from the servers last month.

On Sunday, they leaked a portion of data onto the dark web that contained

438


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 45.arnold_clark_data_breach_could_lead_to_identity_theft.pdf

bank statements details and the car registration number associated with the

car owner.

Security analysts state that such information can easily be misused, leading
to frauds and identity thefts where criminals pose as a person and commit

frauds without the permission of the victim.

NOTE- Play Ransomware aka PlayCrypt is a kind of file encrypting malware
that was first identified in June 2022. Last year, the said group of criminals
hacked into cloud service provider Rackspace, that happens to be the first
renowned victim in their list of targets. According to a research conducted by
Trend Micro, Play has some connection with Quantum Ransomware, a
malware linked to the Conti Ransomware gang that has an established
business of conducting online crime and has a team of research and
development, spammers, negotiators tied up with a legal firm and a call center

to conduct negotiations with representatives of victims.

Naveen Goud

Naveen Goud is a writer at Cybersecurity Insiders covering topics such as Mergers &

Acquisitions, Startups, Cyber Attacks, Cloud Security and Mobile Security

439
