

--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 5.preliminary_hearing_22-02-2024.pdf

10

15

20

25

30

35

 

EMPLOYMENT TRIBUNALS (SCOTLAND)
Case No: 8000485/2023
Preliminary Hearing held by Cloud Video Platform on 22 February 2024

Employment Judge M Kearns

Mr M Sangare Claimant
In person
Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited Respondent

Represented by:
Mr J Meechan

Solicitor

ORDERS OF THE EMPLOYMENT TRIBUNAL

Under Schedule 1 of the Employment Tribunals (Constitution and Rules of Procedure)
Regulations 2013, the Tribunal makes the following case management Orders:-

Amendment

(1) The claimant’s application to amend is allowed in respect of the following
heads of claim: direct race discrimination; race related harassment; race
related victimisation; whistleblowing detriment; and automatically unfair
dismissal all as set out in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Note below. The
application to amend is refused in respect of the claims of indirect
discrimination and wrongful dismissal (also set out in paragraph 3 of the Note
below).

(2) The respondent has leave to amend the ET3 in response within 21 days from
the date this Note is sent to the parties if so advised.

57


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 5.preliminary_hearing_22-02-2024.pdf

10

15

20

25

30

35

Case No: : 8000485/2023 Page 2

1.

NOTE FOLLOWING PRELIMINARY HEARING

The claimant was employed by the respondent as a ‘Dev Ops Engineer’ from 7
December 2022 until 22 June 2023. He worked remotely from home. Having
notified Acas of his intention to bring this claim on 31 July 2023 and having
received from them an early conciliation certificate on 4 September 2023, he
presented an application to the Employment Tribunal on 25 September 2023 in
which he claimed automatically unfair dismissal, race discrimination and
subjection to detriment and dismissal by reason of having made a protected
disclosure.

A case management preliminary hearing took place on 27 November 2023 at
which the issues the claimant had raised in his ET1 and PH agenda were
discussed. On behalf of the respondent, Mr Meechan submitted that the claimant
had raised issues in his PH Agenda and at the PH itself which were not in his ET1.
Mr Meechan submitted that these additional issues would require to be the subject
of an application by the claimant to amend the ET1 and that the respondent would
be likely to oppose such an application. This was discussed and it was agreed
that | would issue the PH Note recording the claimant’s claims as understood
following our discussions. Mr Meechan would then have 7 days from his receipt
of the PH Note within which to indicate which claims he challenged as not
sufficiently foreshadowed in the ET1 and thereby requiring amendment.
Thereafter, the claimant would have 14 days from Mr Meechan’s challenge within
which to make any application to amend.

. Mr Meechan sent an email to the tribunal, copied to the claimant on 8 December

2023 in which he accepted that the ET1 contained claims of whistleblowing
detriment (section 47B Employment Rights Act 1996 (“ERA”)) and automatically
unfair dismissal (section 103A ERA) and that the information recorded in the PH
Note amounted to further and better particulars of those claims. However, he
argued that the remaining claims were not grounded in the ET1 and submitted
that the claimant would require to amend to incorporate them. In correspondence
dated 22 December 2023, the claimant disputed that the claims in question were
not grounded in the ET1. He argued that they were so grounded. This PH was
fixed to (i) determine that issue; and (ii) if amendment was held to be required, to
determine the claimant’s application to amend, which he confirmed was in the

terms recorded in the PH Note of 27 November 2023 as detailed in the next two

58


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 5.preliminary_hearing_22-02-2024.pdf

5

10

15

20

25

30

Case No: : 8000485/2023 Page 3

numbered paragraphs below. The issues the claimant seeks to have determined
and the particulars the claimant seeks to add, and to which Mr Meechan objects

are as follows:

“Direct Discrimination

A. Did the respondent, because of the claimant’s race, treat the claimant less
favourably than it would have treated others? The less favourable treatment
alleged by the claimant is as follows. The claimant will say that:

a. Jason White, Dev Ops Engineer was permitted by the claimant's line
manager Claire Thomson and second line manager, David Moffat to
behave in an aggressive and disrespectful way towards the claimant
in the manner described below at video meetings at which they were
present and to humiliate the claimant without any steps being taken
to challenge his behaviour. By contrast, the claimant was subjected to
the respondent's performance procedure and dismissed.

b. On or about 13 June 2023 the claimant’s line manager, Claire
Thomson misrepresented to HR what had happened at a meeting with
the claimant that day.

c. HR did not follow the respondent’s performance procedure in relation
to the claimant;

d. The claimant sent the code he had written to David Moffat to check.
Despite being a software developer, Mr Moffat did not check the
claimant’s code.

e. The claimant’s employee benefits were cancelled the day before the
meeting at which he was dismissed indicating prejudgment.

f. The claimant was dismissed on grounds of poor performance. He will
argue that, as his performance was not poor, he was dismissed
because of his race.

The claimant’s comparators are Jason White and other white employees of
the respondent.
Harassment

B. Did the claimant suffer unwanted conduct as follows? The claimant will say
that:

59


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 5.preliminary_hearing_22-02-2024.pdf

10

15

20

25

30

35

Case No: : 8000485/2023 Page 4

a. Over a period between 12 January and around 19 June 2023 Jason
White, Dev Ops Engineer shouted at the claimant repeatedly at daily
team meetings, would not let the claimant speak, told him: “shut up,
I’m speaking”; belittled the claimant and criticised his work in front of
others. In particular, at a meeting in early June 2023, Mr White
criticised a code the claimant had written for AWS which involved a
modular approach. He laughed at the claimant in front of those
present and mocked him with the words: “You don’t know what you’re

doing. Let me tell you one more time..”

Was this related to the claimant’s race?

If so, did this conduct have the purpose or effect of violating his dignity,
or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive

environment for the claimant?

Indirect Discrimination

C. Did the respondent apply the practice of not adequately evaluating
performance in the claimant’s department, so as to obtain objective

information upon which performance could be assessed with transparency?

Was that practice applied to white and non-white employees in the claimant’s
department?

Did the practice put (or would it put) non-white employees in the claimant’s
department at a particular disadvantage compared with white employees in
that the lack of transparency and objective information about performance
fostered an environment where racial prejudices may influence employment

decisions?

Did it put the claimant at that disadvantage?

If so, was the practice a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim?

68


--- New Page 5 ---
Page number: 5
Title of ebook of origin: 5.preliminary_hearing_22-02-2024.pdf

10

15

20

25

30

Case No: : 8000485/2023 Page 5

Victimization

D. Did the claimant do the following act and if so, was it a protected act under
section 27(2)(c) or (d) Equality Act 2010? The claimant will say that:

a. Onorabout 12 January 2023, following a video meeting, the claimant
told his manager Claire Thomson that the way in which Jason White
had spoken to him at the meeting was insulting, abusive and violent,
was contributing to insecurity in the department and was having an

effect on his own health and safety and on that of the whole team.

b. He submitted a formal written grievance complaining of direct
discrimination and an overall atmosphere of bias and prejudice.
[Claimant’s PH Agenda paragraph S.8(f).]

Was the claimant subjected to the following detriment, and if so, was it

because he had done the protected act?

c. Dismissing the claimant for alleged poor performance.

Wrongful Dismissal

E. Was the claimant’s dismissal in breach of his contract?”

4. The following issues and particulars are not objected to by Mr Meechan and are
received as issues for determination at the hearing and as the claimant’s further
particulars of his ET1. The following amendments to the ET1 are allowed without
objection:

“Whistleblowing

F. Did the claimant make the following disclosures and if so, were they
protected disclosures as defined in sections 43B and 43C Employment
Rights Act 1996 (“ERA”)?: The claimant will say that:

a. Onor about 12 January 2023, following a video meeting, the claimant
told his manager Claire Thomson that the way in which Jason White
had spoken to him at the meeting was insulting, abusive and violent,

61


--- New Page 6 ---
Page number: 6
Title of ebook of origin: 5.preliminary_hearing_22-02-2024.pdf

10

15

20

25

30

35

Case No: : 8000485/2023 Page 6

was contributing to insecurity in the department and was having an

effect on his own health and safety and on that of the whole team.

b. Onor about 12 January 2023, following a cyber-security breach of the
respondent’s systems in December 2022, the claimant told his
manager Claire Thomson that the action of Jason White in copying
passwords from the old system to the new one was contrary to the
respondent's legal obligations following a cyber security breach.

c. On or about 19 June 2023, the claimant emailed Claire Thomson,
David Moffat and the respondent’s HR department to report on-going
verbal abuse by Mr White as well as alleged IT malpractice and
breach of the respondent’s legal obligations relating to data
protection.

Was the claimant subjected to the following detriment? The claimant will say
that:

d. Management and HR terminated his employment in a way that was
predetermined and not in accordance with the respondent’s
procedures for managing performance without any proper basis for

doing so.

Was the claimant subjected to the above detriment contrary to section 47B
ERA because he had made one or more of the above protected disclosures?

Automatically Unfair Dismissal

G. The claimant does not have the necessary two years’ qualifying service to
claim ‘ordinary’ unfair dismissal. Thus, the questions is whether his dismissal

was for an inadmissible reason making it automatically unfair:

Was the claimant dismissed for the reason or principal reason that he made
a protected disclosure contrary to section 103A ERA?”

62


--- New Page 7 ---
Page number: 7
Title of ebook of origin: 5.preliminary_hearing_22-02-2024.pdf

10

15

20

25

30

35

Case No: : 8000485/2023 Page 7

Issue (i) - Whether the claims objected to are in the claimant’s ET1.

5. | am required to consider the claimant’s ET1 as a whole. In his ET1, the claimant
ticked the following boxes in section 8.1: ‘unfair dismissal’, ‘race discrimination’,
‘whistleblowing’ and ‘another type of claim’, which he stated was “harassment”. In
section 8.2, which asks for the details of the claim, the claimant typed two
paragraphs. After some background about the claimant’s job, the following detail
was given: “Just a week prior to my unexpected dismissal, my manager expressed
satisfaction with my work and awaited my code submission. However, | received
an abrupt HR letter alleging poor performance - a matter never discussed with my
manager. | can corroborate this with comprehensive digital records of all
managerial interactions, made possible due to my remote work nature. //
Suspiciously, my dismissal followed a complaint | raised about a colleague's
violent behaviour, endorsed by my manager. HR was made aware but seemed
unresponsive, with their demeanour suggesting they weren't interested in a fair
appraisal. Throughout, | felt dehumanised and witnessed a constructed narrative
to unjustly terminate me. | observed racial undertones in the actions of HR and
my manager, which | can substantiate. The ordeal left me mentally shattered,
questioning my self-worth and life. Notably, I'm aware of others in the company
whose genuine incompetence endangered the business and staff, yet they remain
shielded.”

6. In section 9.2, the ET1 contains the following statements so far as relevant to the
current dispute: “Compensation: “My claims to this tribunal are for the following
facts: - direct and indirect discrimination - wrongful and unfair dismissal —

organized harassment.”

7. Put shortly, Mr Meechan argues that the claims of direct and _ indirect
discrimination, harassment, victimization and wrongful dismissal set out above are
not sufficiently foreshadowed or grounded in the ET1 so as to form heads of claim.
He cites the case of Baker v Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis

 

UKEAT0201/09 in support of his argument. In that case, an employment tribunal
at first instance had stated: “We reached the view that although the Claimant
ticked the box marked 'Disability' in section 6 of that claim form, nowhere in the
notes attached to the claim form (which as mentioned above, contain a list of
events in reverse chronological order) does the Claimant make a complaint which

63


--- New Page 8 ---
Page number: 8
Title of ebook of origin: 5.preliminary_hearing_22-02-2024.pdf

10

15

20

25

30

35

Case No: : 8000485/2023 Page 8

is recognisably a complaint of disability discrimination.” At paragraph 54 of the
Judgment on appeal, the EAT held: “/n our judgment the ET correctly considered
the first ET1 as a whole. It came to a conclusion which was open to it. Whilst the
particulars given in the ET1 raised a recognisable case of race discrimination, the
Claimant did not say that the discrimination alleged had anything to do with his
learning difficulties or dyslexia. Neither did the Claimant say that any or any
specific adjustments should have been made for him by reason of his disability.
Accordingly whilst recognising that a technical approach to the question of
whether a particular claim is raised in an ET1 is inappropriate, on the facts of this
case the ET did not err in law or come to a perverse conclusion in holding that,
read as a whole, the first ET1 did not include a claim of disability discrimination.”
Mr Meechan submitted that the Baker case made clear that in order for a claim to
be in an ET1 a claimant needed to do more than tick a box. There needed to be
a nexus between the factual allegations and the protected characteristic. Applying
that to this case, Mr Meechan submitted that there was no nexus between the
claimant’s factual allegations and his race. | considered the ET1 as a whole. The
claimant has ticked the box for race discrimination. In the compensation section
he refers to “direct and indirect discrimination, wrongful and unfair dismissal and
organized harassment”. No further relevant details are given in section 9.2. In
section 8.2 where he is asked to include the details of his claim, the claimant
indicates that poor performance was suddenly alleged out of the blue by HR in
circumstances where his manager had expressed satisfaction with his work. He
states that his dismissal followed a complaint he made about a colleague’s
behaviour, of which HR was made aware but seemed unresponsive. He states
that there was “a constructed narrative to unjustly terminate me’ and continues: “/
observed racial undertones in the actions of HR and my manager which | can
substantiate.” He suggests that he was less favourably treated than others in the

company.

8. The IDS Handbook on Employment Tribunal Practice and Procedure (November
2023 Edition) states at paragraph 9.15: “Whether a formal amendment is required
will depend essentially on whether the claim form...sufficiently particularises the
essential complaint.. that the claimant ... seeks to make.” Commenting on the
Judgment of the Court of Appeal in Ali v Office of National Statistics 2005 IRLR
201 CA, the paragraph goes on “/t was necessary for claimants to set out the
specific acts complained of, as tribunals were only able to adjudicate on specific

64


--- New Page 9 ---
Page number: 9
Title of ebook of origin: 5.preliminary_hearing_22-02-2024.pdf

10

15

20

25

30

35

Case No: : 8000485/2023 Page 9

complaints. A general description of the complaint in the ET1 will therefore not

y

suffice...” In paragraph [293.04] of Harvey on Industrial Relations and
Employment Law (Division PI Practice and Procedure; 1. Employment Tribunals;
|. The claim, its presentation to the tribunal and amendments to the claim; (2)
Presenting the claim; (b) The requirements for and importance of pleading the
claim), the learned authors say this: “A balance is to be struck. As observed by
DHCJ Michael Ford KC in the EAT in Veizi v Glasgow City Council [2022] EAT
182 (8 December 2022, unreported), the ratio of Chandhok is that the parties are
only required to set out the essence of their case in the pleadings. They do not

need to set out every fact and evidential matter in support of their case.”

9. Having considered parties’ submissions, | have come to the conclusion that the
bare bones of the claims of direct race discrimination and race related
victimisation are present in the ET1. The claimant complains about his treatment
by HR and his manager. He says that he witnessed a “constructed narrative to
unjustly terminate me”. He states: “/ observed racial undertones in the actions of
HR and my manager, which | can substantiate.” He then compares his treatment

to that of others. However, the claims require further particularisation.

10.With regard to the claim of race related harassment, the claimant refers to “a
complaint about a colleague’s violent behaviour”. When | inquired what this meant
at the PH on 27 November 2023 (standing the fact that the claimant was a remote
worker), the claimant said that he was talking about ‘verbal violence’. The
particulars of this provided by the claimant in his PH agenda and in discussion at
the PH suggested that the alleged speech complained of was rude, disrespectful,
mocking or patronising rather than violent. In any event, it is clear from the ET1
that the claimant had had issues with a colleague’s behaviour but it is not clear
that this aspect was said to be related to race. Thus, | do not find that the complaint
of race related harassment was in the ET1.

11.1 agree with Mr Meechan that the ET1 does not contain sufficient to amount to
even the essence of a claim of indirect race discrimination and that that claim as
now particularised is not discernible from the ET1. The same goes for the claim

of wrongful dismissal.

65


--- New Page 10 ---
Page number: 10
Title of ebook of origin: 5.preliminary_hearing_22-02-2024.pdf

10

15

20

25

30

35

Case No: : 8000485/2023 Page 10

Issue (ii) - The claimant’s application to amend

12.The claimant confirmed that the substance of his application to amend is as
recorded in the Note of the 27 November PH and set out at paragraph 3 A to G
above. Applying the Selkent test, having regard to the interests of justice, |
considered the submissions of the parties and all the relevant circumstances of
the case. | weighed the relative injustice and hardship that would be caused to the
parties by allowing or refusing the amendment application. | have addressed the

relevant circumstances below:

The nature of the proposed amendments

13. With regard to the nature of the claimant’s proposed amendments, for the reasons
given above, | have concluded that the claims of less favourable treatment
because of race (direct race discrimination) and race related victimisation are
discernible from the ET1. Thus in relation to those claims, the amendment
provides significant further particularisation of existing claims. With regard to the
claim of race related harassment, although the word ‘harassment’ appears in the
ET1, the ET1 does not contain a discernible claim of harassment related to race
for the reasons explained above. The indirect discrimination claim is also not
discernible, nor is wrongful dismissal. Thus the nature of these latter amendments
is that they are substantial amendments which plead new heads of claim. (| would
add here that, in addition to being foreshadowed in the ET1, the race related
victimisation claim seeks to place an alternative label on some of the facts
accepted without objection in relation to the whistleblowing claim. Whilst, as Mr
Meechan submitted, those two cases may be inconsistent, it appeared to me that
they ascribe to the respondent alternative reasons for the conduct complained of
and are being put forward as alternative cases.)

The applicability of time limits

14. Although the claims identified above as being new heads of claim were set out in
the PH agenda presented on 5 November 2023, amendment was not discussed
until the PH itself on 27 November. New claims sought to be introduced by an
application to amend on 27 November 2023 would be out of time. The reason
given by the claimant for not including basic information regarding these claims in

66


--- New Page 11 ---
Page number: 11
Title of ebook of origin: 5.preliminary_hearing_22-02-2024.pdf

10

15

20

25

30

35

Case No: : 8000485/2023 Page 11

the ET1 was that he had encountered an error message when completing online
the answer to the “other types of claim’ question at the end of the tick boxes in
section 8.1. He enclosed a screenshot stating: “Description must be 100
characters or less” and telling him he had 8 characters remaining. He said that
this error had had an impact on his approach to filling out the form in that it had
led him to adopt a more concise and focused approach to completing the form.
He said he was compelled to focus his claims to their most essential elements.
Whilst | understood that the claimant had been constrained in answering the
question about other types of claims, | did not understand him to indicate that he
had faced a similar character limit in answering question 8.2 (which asks for the
details of the claims) and he did not produce an error message for that question.
For those reasons, | did not find this explanation especially persuasive. However,
it is fair to note that the claimant is representing himself. He does not have a legal
background and this is a complex area of law. | accept that the legal issues arising
in relation to the different heads of discrimination are easier to address with the
help of the PH agenda. Treated as a discrete claim, the race related harassment
claim would have had to be notified to Acas by 18 September 2023. The wrongful
dismissal and indirect discrimination claims would have had to be notified by 21
September 2023. The application to amend was on 27 November 2023, thus it

was just over two months out of time.

The timing and manner of the application

15.With regard to the timing and manner of the application, the claimant first notified
the content of these heads of claim to the respondent in his PH agenda sent on 5
November 2023. This content was then discussed and recorded in the Note of
the PH on 27 November 2023. Although the claims were presented two months
out of time, the case was at an early stage. At the time of presenting his ET1, the
claimant did not have the benefit of legal representation or assistance. Some of
the facts put forward for the harassment claim are also pled in the whistleblowing
detriment and automatically unfair dismissal claims and are already accepted for
amendment without objection in relation to those claims. The same witnesses
would be required to talk about the same basic allegations. The specific details of
the harassment claim would be likely to be covered in the evidence of the relevant
witnesses anyway because they are the details of the complaint about a colleague
referred to by the claimant in the ET1.

67


--- New Page 12 ---
Page number: 12
Title of ebook of origin: 5.preliminary_hearing_22-02-2024.pdf

10

15

20

25

30

35

Case No: : 8000485/2023 Page 12

16.With regard to the balance of injustice and hardship, the claimant submitted that
the prejudice to him if the amendment were refused would be massive. He would
lose the opportunity to make a claim of discrimination. Mr Meechan submitted that
the proposed amendment contained new and distinct heads of claim. If the
respondent had to answer the new claims this would involve much more work and
expense. He said the new claims would involve different evidence and different
witnesses. He pointed out that even if the amendment were refused, the claimant
would still have his whistleblowing detriment and dismissal cases and if
successful, he would be entitled to a remedy. Mr Meechan said that the indirect
discrimination claim was inconsistent with the direct discrimination claim in relation
to whether HR had followed the performance procedure. He also submitted that
the claims the claimant now sought to introduce had little reasonable prospect of
success. Mr Meechan said that with regard to the direct discrimination and
harassment claims, the claimant’s case was that the person concerned acted in
the same way to everyone. He submitted that if that was the claimant’s position,
he would be unlikely to show that he had been treated less favourably than others
because of his race. Whilst this may be so, as the higher courts continually remind
us, it is difficult and inadvisable to make try to an assessment of the facts of a

discrimination claim without hearing the evidence.

17.1 considered the interests of justice in this case and the balance of injustice and
hardship. | concluded that in relation to the claims of direct discrimination and race
related victimisation, the amendments should be allowed. | considered that these
claims were discernible from the ET1. For the reasons given above, it appeared
to me that it was just discernible from the ET1 that the claimant was claiming that
he had been treated less favourably and that his race was a reason for that. |
accept, as Mr Meechan submitted that this would sound in expense and extra
work for the respondent. However, it appeared to me that the witnesses the
respondent would require to call and the facts alleged for these claims and also
for the harassment claim were similar to those of the whistleblowing detriment and
automatically unfair dismissal claims. With regard to the victimization claim, this
is really an alternative label for some of the facts of the whistleblowing claim (as
Mr Meechan pointed out). Thus, on balance, | concluded that the amendments in
respect of the claims of direct race discrimination, race related harassment and
race related victimisation should be allowed. In my view the relevant evidence

would require to be led at the hearing anyway. The balance of injustice and

68


--- New Page 13 ---
Page number: 13
Title of ebook of origin: 5.preliminary_hearing_22-02-2024.pdf

5

10

15

20

25

30

Case No: : 8000485/2023 Page 13

hardship favours the claimant in relation to these claims. It would be a greater
hardship for him to be denied the opportunity to have potentially valid claims heard
than it would be for the respondent to defend them.

18.However, | concluded that the balance of injustice and hardship favoured refusing
the application to amend in respect of the remaining claims of indirect
discrimination and wrongful dismissal. These claims, although mentioned in the
ET1 were not foreshadowed in it to the extent required. The indirect discrimination
claim would require new evidence to be gathered which would not otherwise be
required. The claimant will have the opportunity to have his other discrimination
claims heard. The wrongful dismissal claim is not particularised to any extent and
the respondent doe not have fair notice of the particulars of this claim.
Furthermore, as Mr Meechan points out, since a contract can be terminated at
common law by means of the notice clause, contractual notice is normally the
extent of the measure of loss in such a claim. If either of the claimant’s claims of
automatically unfair or race related dismissal were to succeed, the notice period
would be covered by the corresponding remedy for loss in any event.

19.The case will now proceed to the full hearing on 25 April 2024. Orders for
preparation for that hearing have already been issued.

M Kearns

Employment Judge

2/ February 2024
Date

Date sent to parties 29 February 2024

| confirm that this is my PH Note in the case of Mr M Sangare v Arnold Clark
Automobiles Limited 8000485/2023 and that | have signed the Note by electronic

signature.

69
