

--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 7.employment_contract.pdf

Arnold Clark Group Recruitment
151 Kilbirnie Street

Glasgow

G5 8)H

Tel: 0141 435 4490

24 November 2022

Mory-Marcel Sangare
60 Glentye Drive
Tullibody

ALLOA

FK10 2UR

Dear Marcel,

CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT

I would like to take this opportunity to welcome you into the employment of Arnold Clark
and enclose a copy of your contract of employment. Please note that this document should
be read together with your offer, which also contains important terms and conditions
relating to your employment with us.

Future alterations to the contract of a general nature will be displayed on the employee
portal (ACE). This can be accessed via an app and at arnoldclarkemployee.com.

Yours sincerely

Ciara Cammnow

Group Recruitment Team.

Active: 108703641 v 2

77


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 7.employment_contract.pdf

This contract of employment is between the following two parties.

EMPLOYER: ARNOLD CLARK AUTOMOBILES LIMITED, Incorporated under the Companies
Act with the number SC36386 and having its registered office at 454 Hillington Road,
Glasgow G52 4FH (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’ and/or ‘Arnold Clark’) and

EMPLOYEE: Mory-Marcel Sangare.

Start date

Your period of employment under this contract commenced on: 07 December 2022.
[Your period of continuous employment, that may include employment with other
employers, began on: 07 December 2022.]

Job title

Your job title is: Devs Ops Engineer. This title does not define or limit your duties
and you shall be required to perform any duties that may be reasonably required of you
by your departmental manager from time to time.

While employed by the company, you must comply with all its rules, regulations and
policies from time to time in force.

Job location

Your job is based at: Head Office, Hillington.

You may, however, be required to move your base to any other branch or place of
business of the Company (or elsewhere) in the mainland UK on either a permanent or a
temporary basis as the Company may reasonably specify. Where possible, notice will be
given of such a move, although there may be circumstances where this is not possible.

You will not be required to work outside of the UK during your employment for periods
exceeding one month.

Probationary period

You shall be employed for an initial probationary period of three months. During this
time the Company will monitor your performance and conduct and either party may
terminate your employment with one week’s notice.

If at any time during or at the end of your probationary period the Company is not
satisfied with your performance, it may, at its discretion, either increase the
probationary period or terminate your employment in accordance with the notice
provisions set out above.

Remuneration

The appropriate current rate of pay is notified to you in your letter of offer.
Subsequently, rates come up for review annually (although the Company is under no
obligation to increase your salary following any such review).

Commission, where applicable, shall be paid on a monthly basis. The company reserves
the right to make all determinations related to the calculation and payment of
commission. Any such commission will not be deerned to have been earned until after
any deductions have been made by the Company (see deductions after earnings

2

Active: 108703641 v2

78


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 7.employment_contract.pdf

section). Commission shall be paid with the employee’s wages or salary on the normal
pay date in the calendar month following the end of the month during which it was
earned..

Your wages or Salary will be paid directly into your nominated bank account, monthly in
arrears, as appropriate. Every reasonable effort will be made by the Company to ensure
that your salary is credited to your bank account on the last banking day in the
appropriate pay period. However, the Company will not be liable for bank or other
charges incurred by you due to a delay in payment of salary to your account. You are
advised to bear this in mind when arranging standing order and Direct Debit payments.

You should check your payslip upon receipt and contact the Wages department
immediately if you think that a mistake has been made.

Any wage or salary alterations, permanent or temporary, are shown on the payslip,
which you should retain as a reference document.

Hours

Your working hours are set out in your offer letter. However, your working hours may
vary to include any additiona! hours as necessary for the proper performance of your
role, depending on departmental or local requirements.

You must keep to the times set and made known to you for starting and finishing work.
Your departmental manager will specify your rest intervals and again, these must be
strictly observed. Any rota arrangements which are currently in practice may be altered
from time to time to meet the demands of the business.

Periodically, you may be required to work additional hours to those specified to meet the
requirements of the Company. Usually this will be to cover peak trading periods, the
absence of other staff and in order to ensure proper performance of your duties. The
payment of overtime (if applicable) is dealt with in your offer letter.

Working Time Regulations

The Working Time Regulations 1998 (‘WTR’) state that an employer is required to take
all reasonable steps to ensure that employees do not work more than an average of 48
hours a week over a 17-week period.

You agree that the 48-hour weekly limit under WTR will not apply to you during your
employment with the company unless you give three months’ notice in writing to the
Company to the contrary.

Deductions

The Company reserves the right in its absolute discretion to deduct from your salary
and/or any other sums owed to you, any money which you may owe the Company.

You therefore hereby authorise the Company at any time during your employment and
upon its termination (howsoever arising) to deduct from your remuneration (which, for
this purpose, includes but is not limited to your salary, pay in lieu of notice, commission,
bonus, holiday pay and sick pay) and/or any other sums due to you, any sums owed by
you to the Company including (but not limited to) any overpayments or loans or

3

Active: 108703641 v 2

79


--- New Page 4 ---
Page number: 4
Title of ebook of origin: 7.employment_contract.pdf

advances (together with interest where appropriate) advanced by the Company to you,
reimbursement of parking or traffic offence penalties, insurance excesses, fuel misuse
charges, customer short payments, any notice payments which correspond to any period
not worked by you without the agreement of the Company, or losses suffered by the
Company as a result of your negligence, breach of authority or duty, or breach of any
rules or policies relating to your employment.

Holidays

Full-time staff
Holiday year: 1st January to 31st December

Your annual holiday entitlement depends on the number of complete years of continuous
service you have with the Company, as set out in the table below.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Years of complete continuous service Days of Annua! Leave Entitlement (Per
Holiday Year)

Less than 3 33

3-4 33

5-9 35

10 - 14 37

15 and over 40

 

You will be entitled, without loss of remuneration, to the holiday entitlement set out
above which, for the avoidance of doubt, is inclusive of the usual public holidays in
England and Wales (‘Statutory Holidays’).

Statutory Holidays may be taken from commencement of employment. However, it is a
condition of employment that you be prepared to work Statutory Holidays if required to
meet the demands of the business. If you are required to work on a Statutory Holiday,
you will receive an alternative day off in lieu during the current holiday year.

During any holiday year, annual leave must be taken at the appropriate rate for each
month worked during that holiday year, which (in respect of Non-Statutory Holidays) will
accrue on a pro-rata basis in accordance with the table outlined above). During any
continuous period of sickness absence of one month or more, you shall only accrue
statutory holiday under Regulation 13 of the Working Time Regulations 1998 (‘WTR’)
and not any additional contractual holiday entitlement. The Company reserves the right
to require you to take your holidays on particular dates and/or refuse a holiday request
having regard to the reasonable requirements of the business. The Company shall give
you reasonable notice of any such requirement.

If your employment commences part way through the holiday year, your holiday

entitlement during the first year of your employment shall be calculated on a pro-rata
basis, rounded up to the nearest whole day.

When employment terminates part way through the holiday year, any holiday pay in
respect of holidays accrued in the current holiday year will be paid in lieu on a pro-rata

4

Active: 108703641 v 2

80


--- New Page 5 ---
Page number: 5
Title of ebook of origin: 7.employment_contract.pdf

basis, except where your employment is terminated for any reason justifying summary
termination or where you terminate your employment without notice. In either case,
such accrued but untaken holiday shall be based on your minimum holiday entitlement
under the WTR only. On termination of employment, any excess holiday pay received by
you over that which you have accrued, will be repayable to the Company by deduction
from final pay, where possible. By accepting employment with the Company, you hereby
authorise such a deduction to be made.

Annual holiday leave must be taken during the appropriate holiday year at a time agreed
with your departmental manager and normally no more than two weeks consecutively.
Annual holiday leave cannot be carried over to the next holiday year.

You must give reasonable notice of dates that you wish to take as holidays. If you do not
give sufficient notice, you may not be given permission to take those dates as a holiday.
If either party has served notice to terminate employment, the Company may require
you to take any accrued but unused holiday entitlement during the notice period.

No payment will be made in lieu of holidays, except on termination, as described above.
Any paid holiday that has been taken by you shall be deemed first to be European leave
under the Working Time Directive and Regulation 13 of the WTR, then additional annual
leave under Regulation 13A of the WTR, and, then only when this is exhausted, to be
any additional contractual paid holiday.

[Product Consultants should refer to Sales Office for further information about holiday
entitlement. ]

Part-time staff

Part-time staff are entitled to the holidays described above on a pro-rata basis by
reference to the full-time entitlement.

Notice

During the probationary period, the amount of notice to be given and received by both
parties shall be not less than one week. After successful completion of the probationary
period or any extension of it, you will be required to give the Company one month’s
written notice and you shall be entitled to receive one week’s notice for each full year of
continuous service up to a maximum of 12 weeks (after 12 years’ continuous service or
more). The Company reserves the right to terminate employment immediately without
notice (or payment in lieu of notice) in cases of gross misconduct, or if you commit a
serious breach of obligations as an employee. The Company also reserves the right to
terminate your employment with immediate effect by letting you know it is exercising its
right to do so under this contract and that it will pay you in lieu of the basic salary you
would have received had you worked your notice period (or any remaining part of it).

Furlough Leave

In the event that the Company is required to close its premises or if there is a reduced
need for you to perform your role on a temporary basis due to the impact of a national
or local health crisis, or the imposition of any directions, measures or legal requirements
by the government or local authority, or any other circumstances outwith the Company’s

5

Active: 108703641 v 2

81


--- New Page 6 ---
Page number: 6
Title of ebook of origin: 7.employment_contract.pdf

control, the Company shall be entitled to place you on a period of leave (‘Furlough
Leave’). Any such period of Furlough Leave shall be for as long as the Company
determines is necessary.

You shall be given as much notice as is reasonably practicable if you are to be placed on
Furlough Leave.

During any period of Furlough Leave:
e you shall not be required to work, or your hours of work may be reduced as the
Company determines is necessary; and
e the Company will confirm to you as soon as reasonably practicable what your pay
arrangements shall be during any period of Furlough Leave which may be
required.

A period of Furlough Leave, including your entitlement to pay, may be subject to the
terms of any government scheme, direction, regulations or legislation in place from time
to time and the Company reserves the right to impose any conditions which may be
required in order to comply with these.

Nothing in this clause shall impact your statutory rights, including in relation to family or
sickness leave and pay.

Other employment

Should you have any pre-existing employment you plan to continue with upon
commencement of your position with Arnold Clark, this should be disclosed to the People
Team as soon as possible and consent to this obtained if Arnold Clark considers this
appropriate. If at any time throughout your employment with Arnold Clark you decide to
take on additional paid employment, you must seek prior consent from the People Team.

Interest in business other than that of the Company

You will not be concerned or interested either directly or indirectly, whether financially or
otherwise, in any business which is or could be in competition with that of the Company,
without the prior written consent of the Company, except as a non-executive
shareholder or debenture holder, with a limit of 5% of issued capital.

Sickness benefit

If you are absent from work for any reason you must inform your line manager by 10
a.m. on your first day of absence.

In the case of absence due to sickness for up to seven calendar days, a Self-Certification
Form must be completed on ACE as soon as you return to work and submitted to your
line manager. If you remain absent from work, you must produce a medical certificate to
cover the entire period while you are absent. The medical certificate must state the
reason for the absence. If you do not follow these requirements, you may be subject to
disciplinary action in terms of the Company’s disciplinary policy.

If you are absent from work for more than three days by reason of sickness or injury
and you satisfy the sickness absence reporting procedure, you will be entitled to
Statutory Sick Pay (‘SSP’). You may also be entitied to Company Sickness Benefit (as
defined below) subject to the terms and conditions set out below.

6

Active: 108703641 v 2

82


--- New Page 7 ---
Page number: 7
Title of ebook of origin: 7.employment_contract.pdf

Access to and payment of Company Sickness Benefit is not automatic and entirely at the
discretion of the Directors of the Company. If applicable, Company Sickness Benefit will
normally be paid in accordance with the rules set out below. Further, the Directors may
also withdraw or suspend payment of Company Sickness Benefit where they consider
that it should not be paid.

For the avoidance of doubt, Company Sickness Benefit will not be paid to an employee
who is absent from work at any point during a disciplinary procedure (including any
investigation prior to a disciplinary hearing being scheduled) or to any employee who
has progressed to the second stage of disciplinary action (e.g. from a verbal warning to
a written warning or from a written warning to a final written warning). In disciplinary
cases, the employee will be notified that their entittement to Company Sickness Benefit
will be suspended for the lifetime of the disciplinary warning. Any suspension or
withdrawal of Company Sickness Benefit will be subject to review in accordance with
advice from Occupational Health and the final decision regarding suspension or
withdrawal of Company Sickness Benefit will be at the discretion of the Directors.

Subject to the Directors’ discretion outlined above (and compliance with the sickness
absence reporting procedure), basic salary, inclusive of any SSP entitlement,
(‘Company Sickness Benefit’) may be payable to salaried employees for the following
periods:

 

Years of complete continuous service | Amount of entitlement during any
rolling 12-month period

 

 

 

 

 

Less than 3 3 months
3-4 3 months
5-9 3 months
10 -14 4 months
15 and over 6 months

 

In respect of hourly paid employees, no Company Sickness Benefit will be payable for
the first three days of absence from work on normal working days in any period of
sickness. Full basic pay, inclusive of SSP entitlement, may be payable from the fourth
working day in line with and subject to the terms and conditions set out above.

As set out above, subject to the Directors’ discretion, entitlement to Company Sickness
Benefit (if applicable) will be based on a rolling 12-month period.

Company Sickness Benefit (if applicable) will be calculated on a pro-rata basis for part-
time employees by reference to full-time equivalent entitlement.

The Company reserves the right to require you to undergo a medical examination
conducted by a doctor nominated by the Company, at the Company's expense. You
agree that any report produced in connection with any such examination may be
disclosed to the Company and the Company may discuss the report with the relevant
doctor.

Active: 108703641 v 2

83


--- New Page 8 ---
Page number: 8
Title of ebook of origin: 7.employment_contract.pdf

Company cars, fuel cards and driving duties

Provided that you hold a current full driving licence, a company car (where applicable)
will be allocated to you on commencement of employment. The car will be subject to
availability of stock and the Company retains absolute discretion to exclude particular
models or manufacturers. The Company reserves the right to remove Company cars and
fuel cards from any employees who are absent from work through sickness. It is your
responsibility to notify HMRC of any changes to your company vehicle for Tax Code
purposes.

You shall comply with the terms of our [Driving and Car Policies], as may be in force
from time to time.

If driving is a key part of your duties In your role, it is a condition of your employment
that you hold a valid driving licence.

Private use of company cars

The Company may levy a contribution at a level to be set from time to time, on
employees who are eligibie for private use of company cars. By accepting employment,
the employee expressly authorises the Company to deduct the appropriate amount from
their net pay.

Cars which are available for private use are part of the trading stock of the Company.
When employees are absent the Company may require such cars to be returned.

Disciplinary and Grievance procedures

The Company's disciplinary and grievance procedures are to be found on ACE. If you are
dissatisfied with any disciplinary or dismissal decision you should refer to the disciplinary
procedure. If you have a grievance about your employment, you are entitled to raise a
complaint in terms of the Company's grievance procedure.

Other paid leave

You may be eligible to take the following types of paid leave, subject to any statutory
eligibility requirements or conditions and the Company's rules applicable to each type of
leave in force from time to time:

a) statutory maternity leave and you may be eligible to receive Company maternity
pay subject to the rules set out in the Company's maternity policy from time to
time;

b) statutory paternity leave and you may be eligible to receive Company paternity
pay subject to the rules set out in the Company's paternity policy from time to
time;

c) statutory adoption leave;

d) shared parental leave;

e) parental bereavement leave; and

f} bereavement leave - in addition to parental bereavement leave, employees are
entitled to five days paid compassionate leave following the death of someone
within their immediate family. For grandparents, employees are entitled to one
day’s paid leave.

Further details of such leave and your pay during such leave are available through ACE.
8

Active: 108703641 v 2

84


--- New Page 9 ---
Page number: 9
Title of ebook of origin: 7.employment_contract.pdf

We may replace, amend or withdraw the Company's policy on any of the above types of
leave at any time.

Benefits

When you start employment, you may receive the following benefits, subject to the
eligibility criteria and rules applicable to the relevant benefit’s scheme.

a) Private health cover
b) Death in service

Further details of these benefits are available through ACE.

We may replace or withdraw such benefits, or amend the terms of such benefits, at any
time on reasonable notice to you.

Training

During your employment you are entitled to take part in various training courses which
we may provide from time to time in-house.

Confidentiality

During your employment by the Company, you may learn trade secrets or confidential
information which relates to the Company (‘Confidential Information’). Unless you are
required to do so in the proper performance of your duties, you must not:

1. Divulge or communicate Confidential Information to any person;

2. Use Confidential Information for your own purposes or for any purposes other
than those of the Company or, as appropriate, any of its clients;

3. Cause any unauthorised disclosure, through any failure to exercise due care and
attention, of Confidential Information or information relating to any of the
Company’s clients.

These restrictions apply both while you are employed by the Company and after your
employment with the Company terminates. The restrictions will cease to apply to any
Confidential Information which becomes generally available to the public otherwise than
through a failure by you to observe these restrictions.

Information Security

During the course of employment at Arnold Clark, you may be assigned access to Arnold
Clark Information Systems which will include a User ID and Password. In order to
maintain confidentiality, you will be required to adhere to the Arnold Clark Information
Security policies at all times.

Active: 108703641 v 2

85


--- New Page 10 ---
Page number: 10
Title of ebook of origin: 7.employment_contract.pdf

Company property

All documents, manuals, hardware and software provided for your use by the Company,
and any data or documents (including copies) produced, maintained or stored on the
Company's computer systems or other electronic equipment (including mobile phones),
remain the property of the Company.

Any Company property In your possession and any original or copy documents obtained
by you in the course of your employment shall be returned to the Company at any time
on request and in any event prior to the termination of your employment with the
Company.

Issue of Company Devices

Certain job roles are issued with a corporate tablet-based device. If you are issued with
a device by us, you shall:

* take good care of the device as it remains the property of the Company and
notify us immediately of any damage to or loss of the device;

e not download or stream anything to this device that is for personal use;

e always use Wifi in the first instance for downloading specific approved
applications and not download any applications which have not been approved;
and

e return the device and all equipment, kit or documents related to it to us
immediately if requested by us or if your employment is terminated.

If data usage is above the corporate tolerated level and deemed related to personal use
an excess may be charged at the standard Vodafone rate + vat per GB of data.

Any charges that are not business related will be deducted from you personally. By

accepting the terms of this employment contract, you agree that the Company may
deduct such charges from your wages.

Please refer to the cyber security page on ACE for more information and in particular
please ensure you have read the Acceptable Use Policy and Acceptable Use Standard.

Data Protection

The Company will process personal information about you in connection with your

employment. The Employee Privacy Policy which is applicable to you can be found on
ACE.

You must comply with the Employee Privacy Policy at all times, including when you are
handling personal data in the course of your employment. The Company may change the

Employee Privacy Policy at any time and will notify you of such changes where
necessary.

Right to Work

You confirm that you are entitled to work in the United Kingdom. If you are unable to
present evidence of your right to work in the United Kingdom so that the Company can

10

Active: 108703641 v 2

86


--- New Page 11 ---
Page number: 11
Title of ebook of origin: 7.employment_contract.pdf

comply with its obligations under the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006, or if
the Company discovers that you do not have the permission to live and work in the
United Kingdom or if your permission to do so is revoked, the Company reserves the

right to terminate your employment immediately and without notice or payment in lieu
of notice.

Collective agreements

As a member of the Scottish Motor Trade Association, the Company recognises the
objects of the National Joint Council For The Motor Vehicle Retail And Repair Industry
(N.J.C.). The Company will consider carefully any recommendations of the N.J.C.
However, it will not be bound to implement all such recommendations.

Pension scheme

In conjunction with our advisers, Argyle Consulting Limited, the Company has set up an
Auto Enrolment Workplace Pension Plan. Pension contributions (subject to meeting all
relevant criteria) will be made by salary exchange for employees who meet the relevant
criteria and after tax for those who do not and submitted directly to Legal and General.
We use a three month postponement period and you will be enrolled into the pension
scheme on your third month of employment. If you wish to discuss this further, please
contact Craig Ramage at Argyle Consulting Limited on 0141 574 2025/07921 472 374 or
at arnoldclark@argyleconsulting.co.uk.

A contracting out certificate is not in force in respect of your employment.

Subsidiary companies

The terms of this document govern employment with the Company and any of its UK
subsidiaries from time to time.

Alterations

The Company reserves the right to alter these terms and conditions from time to time to
meet the needs of the business. The Company will endeavour to give at least one
month’s written notice of any material alterations to these terms and conditions.

Declaration by employee

I acknowledge receipt of the contract of employment of which this is a copy, together
with my offer letter.

I also acknowledge that I have read and understood the Company Policies, Employee
Code of Conduct and Health & Safety section detailed on ACE and agree to comply with
them.

11

Active: 108703641 v 2

87


--- New Page 12 ---
Page number: 12
Title of ebook of origin: 7.employment_contract.pdf

 

88
