

--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 8.disciplinary_procedure.pdf

1.0
1]

2.0
2.1

2.2
2.3

2.4

2.5

2.6

2.7

3.0
3.1

3.2

Disciplinary procedure

This policy does not form part of the employee’s contract of employment and may be
amended by the company from time to time.

Introduction

In Arnold Clark it is essential to maintain standards of performance to assist in the smooth
running of the business. This procedure is designed to help and encourage you to achieve
and maintain standards of conduct, job performance and attendance. Its aim is also to
ensure consistent and fair treatment of all employees.

Informal procedure

Minor shortcomings in meeting the requirements of your job may be brought to your
attention informally by the person to whom you are primarily responsible or by the People
Team If, however, formal steps are necessary, the following will apply.

Guidelines for the conduct of formal disciplinary meetings

Disciplinary action will normally be taken by the People Team but circumstances may
warrant someone else being involved.

No disciplinary sanction will be imposed until the situation has been investigated.

You will be advised in writing of the nature of the complaint against you and we will aim to
give you a minimum of 48 hours’ notice before any disciplinary meeting takes place. You will
be given the opportunity to comment before any decision is made at a disciplinary hearing.
Your comments will be taken into consideration in making that decision.

You may be accompanied by a work colleague or an official of a trade union during any
disciplinary meeting or appeal. The person accompanying you may not answer questions on
your behalf and his or her name should be disclosed before any meeting.

Disciplinary action may be started or taken at any level of this procedure if a particular
complaint warrants such action.

Although time limits on warnings are contained in the procedure, there may be instances
when it is necessary to extend them. In such circumstances an explanation of why this has
been done will be given. You will not be dismissed for a first breach of discipline, except

in the case of gross misconduct, when the penalty will be immediate dismissal without
payment for the period of your notice.

You may appeal against any disciplinary decision following the procedures set out below in
paragraph 6.

Implementation of the disciplinary policy

In certain circumstances an investigation may take time to complete. For this and other
reasons, the company may suspend you on full pay until the disciplinary procedure has been
completed. During any period of suspension, you will not be entitled to enter the company’s
premises except at the company’s prior request.

A disciplinary will be arranged between you and the person to whom you report or a
member of the People Team. You will be advised of the name(s) of the person(s) who will be
conducting the meeting.

@communicarion

89


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 8.disciplinary_procedure.pdf

3.3

3.4

3.5

4.0

4]

4.2

4.3

4.4

4.5

5.0
5.1

5.2

The persons conducting the interview will decide what Cif any) disciplinary measures to apply
while considering the circumstances and your previous record.

If improvement is required in your conduct, performance or attendance as part of this
procedure, you will be informed of this fact in writing, as well as the period during which it will
be monitored and the consequences of failing to carry it out satisfactorily. It is important that
you participate in this process, so that any additional training or support can be discussed.
The position will normally be reviewed with immediate effect and you will be advised of the
timescale for improvement in writing.

If the disciplinary action results in your dismissal with notice, the company will decide
whether you should be paid in lieu of that notice period or whether you will be required to
work your notice.

Disciplinary sanctions
The following disciplinary sanctions may be imposed:
Verbal warning

Minor disciplinary matters will normally be dealt with by a formal verbal warning. You will be
advised of the reason for the warning, that it is the first stage of the disciplinary procedure
and of your right of appeal. A note of that warning will be placed on your personnel file and
will normally be disregarded after six months, provided that during that time there is no re-
occurrence of the unsatisfactory performance, conduct or attendance.

Written warning

If the nature of the misconduct is considered too serious for a verbal warning or if a further
episode of unsatisfactory performance, conduct or attendance occurs during the lifetime of
a verbal warning, a written warning will normally be issued. Once again you will be advised
of the reason for the warning, the stage of the disciplinary procedure that has been reached,
what you should do to improve, the timescale for improvement, the consequences should
you not improve and of your right of appeal. A copy of the warning will be placed and kept
on your personnel file, and will normally be disregarded after 12 months, provided that during
that time there is no re-occurrence of the unsatisfactory performance, attendance

or misconduct.

Final written warning

If there is still a failure to improve and your conduct, performance or attendance is still
unsatisfactory, or if there is an offence which is sufficiently serious a final written warning
will normally be issued. This warning will be dealt with in the same way as a written warning
except that it will also warn you that dismissal or other sanction may result if no satisfactory
improvement is reached. It will normally be disregarded after a period of 18 months.

Dismissal or demotion

If there is still no satisfactory improvement regarding job performance or attendance, or if
there is a further occurrence of misconduct during the lifetime of a final written warning, you
will normally be dismissed with notice. The decision to dismiss will be given to you in writing
and the letter will set out the reason for dismissal, the date on which your employment will
terminate and your right of appeal. Pending the outcome of any such appeal, your dismissal
will stand.

In some circumstances, as an alternative to dismissal the company may decide to impose
a demotion along with a final written warning, this decision would also be given to you in
writing and you would have the right to appeal. Pending the outcome of any such appeal,
your demotion and final written warning will stand.

Company sick pay during a disciplinary process

For details on payment of sick pay during a disciplinary process or while a disciplinary
warning is live, please refer to the Contract of Employment.

Summary dismissal

You will normally be dismissed with immediate effect and without notice or payment in lieu
of notice in cases of gross misconduct. The procedure will be as set out above. You will be
required to leave the company’s premises immediately. Examples of gross misconduct are
as follows:

Theft, fraud, physical violence, bullying, deliberate and serious damage to property, serious
misuse of company property or company name, deliberately accessing pornographic internet
sites, serious insubordination, unlawful discrimination or harassment, bringing the

98


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 8.disciplinary_procedure.pdf

5.3

6.0
6.1

6.2

6.3

7.0
71

organisation into serious disrepute, consumption of drugs or alcohol at work or being under
the influence of either, causing loss, damage or injury through serious negligence, serious
breach of health and safety rules, serious breach of trust and confidence, misuse of the
automated first registration and licensing system or data associated with the service. This
list is not exhaustive and other actions may be considered to be gross misconduct.

While gross misconduct will usually relate to the company’s business, circumstances may
also occur when conduct, which is not so related, will be treated as gross misconduct
because of your position or duties, the need to maintain mutual trust and confidence or
the need to protect the company’s reputation. For example, you should be aware that the
company will take a serious view if you are convicted of a criminal offence other than a
minor motoring offence not involving a custodial sentence.

Appeals

If you consider that you have a case to appeal any disciplinary decision taken you should
follow the company appeal procedure. The details of where to send your appeal will be
notified to you when you are informed of the disciplinary decision.

Written notice of any appeal should be addressed to the person hearing your appeal and
should be made normally within five working days of your being notified of the disciplinary
decision. You must at that stage specify the grounds of the appeal. A meeting will then be
arranged as soon as is reasonably practicable.

An appeal may result in the removal of the disciplinary sanction, a lesser sanction or the
confirmation of the original sanction. If the decision is to revoke a dismissal, you will be
reinstated with back pay. There is no further right of appeal, the decision of the person
hearing the appeal will be final and confirmed in writing.

Dismissal for employees with less than 24 months’ service

In the case of employees with less than 24 months’ service, the above procedure will not
normally apply. Please contact the People Team in the first instance for further information.

91
