

--- New Page 1 ---
Page number: 1
Title of ebook of origin: 9.grievance_procedure.pdf

2.1.

Grievance procedure

This policy does not form part of the employee’s contract of employment and may be
amended by the company from time to time.

1. Introduction

As a company, we seek to communicate with employees and to foster an open culture
wherein employees can raise any issues or concerns. The purpose of this policy is to set out
how employees can go about raising and resolving any issues that they may have.

The procedure applies to all employees, irrespective of their length of service, hours worked
and seniority. Anyone wishing to use the procedure can do so freely and without prejudice
to their position within the company.

All employees should be aware that malicious or reckless abuse of the grievance procedure
to raise unfounded complaints or allegations will be viewed very seriously by the company
and may lead to disciplinary action (including summary dismissal) being taken against the

employee responsible.

2. Informal procedure

Any employee who has a workplace issue should, in the first instance, make their line
manager aware of the problem and seek to rectify it in an informal manner before the formal
procedure is invoked.

As part of the informal process, consideration will be given to mediation in the first instance.

Mediation

The purpose of mediation is to seek a mutually agreeable solution to resolve an issue at work
without the need to progress to the formal grievance procedure. Mediation may be suitable
in instances where communications and relationships have broken down. It can re-establish
communication lines and individuals can agree ways to work together constructively. In
order for mediation to be a success, it must be willingly entered into by both parties looking
for a solution and not to apportion blame.

If a resolution is not achieved through informal means, including mediation, the individual
who raised the grievance may wish to progress to the formal process.
3. Formal procedure

We recognise that from time to time there will be issues that need to be raised in a formal
manner, having exhausted the informal process. All grievances raised under this policy will
be treated with complete confidentiality.

@communicarion

92


--- New Page 2 ---
Page number: 2
Title of ebook of origin: 9.grievance_procedure.pdf

Step 1: Firstly, the employee should set out the grievance in writing and send it to the
People Team. A meeting with the employee will then be arranged to discuss the
issue. This will usually take place within a reasonable time of receipt of
the grievance.

An investigation will be undertaken to establish the full facts and circumstances of
the case. A decision will subsequently be made and communicated to the employee
in writing as soon as possible.

Step 2: If the employee feels that the grievance has been unsatisfactorily resolved after they
have been notified of the outcome, they can appeal against the decision.

The grievance decision letter will set out who the employee should write to if they
wish to appeal the decision. The identity of the person who will hear that appeal will
be notified to the employee when they are informed of the grievance decision.

This appeal must be in writing and should set out the basis of the appeal. The
employee should appeal within five working days of notification of the decision.

A meeting with the employee will then be arranged to discuss the appeal. The grounds of
appeal will be investigated and the decision will then be communicated to the employee
in writing as soon as possible. The decision will be final and binding and there is no further
right of appeal.

The employee has the right to be accompanied at all meetings by a work colleague or an
accredited trade union representative.
4. Complaints of discrimination and harassment

In the event of a complaint of discrimination or harassment, a grievance should be raised
in accordance with the procedure above. Further information on this can be found in the
Company Harassment Policy.

93


--- New Page 3 ---
Page number: 3
Title of ebook of origin: 9.grievance_procedure.pdf

5. Procedure at a glance

Employee has a grievance

 

ee ee

Informal procedure Formal procedure
Approach line manager for Grievance details put in
advice and assistance writing to HR

 

 

Initial grievance meeting
Grievance addressed Grievance not addressed: with HR
and resolved consider formal procedure

 

Investigation

a

Written grievance
outcome supplied

 

 

 

 

(~ >)
Unsatisfied Satisfied
with grievance outcome with grievance outcome
J
(— | ~ |
Employee puts appeal Grievance closed
in writing

 

Appeal meeting

Written outcome of
appeal supplied

94

023348
