CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT
This letter is your contract of employment and contains a statement of the applicable terms of your employment as required by
section 1 of the Employment Rights Act 1996.
1.

Commencement of employment

1.1.

Your employer is NOMAD DIGITAL LIMITED (“Company” or “we”). Your employment start date is confirmed as per your
offer letter and no continuous employment date with any other company is deemed valid.

1.2.

The first 3 months of your employment shall be a probationary period and your employment may be terminated during
this period at any time on one week's prior notice. We may, at our discretion, extend this period for up to a further 3
months. During this probationary period your performance and suitability for continued employment will be monitored.
Successful completion of the probationary period will be deemed confirmed only upon receipt of a probationary period
confirmation letter from HR.

2.

Job title

2.1.

Your role and reporting line are as per your offer letter and your duties are set out in the assigned job description.

2.2.

You may be required to undertake other duties from time to time as we may reasonably require.

2.3.

You warrant that:-

2.3.1.

you are entitled to work in the UK without any additional approvals and will notify the Company immediately if you
cease to be so entitled at any time during your employment with the Company; and

2.3.2.

by entering into this agreement or performing any of his obligations under it, you will not be in breach of any court
order or any express or implied terms of any contract or other obligation binding on you.

2.4.

You shall devote the whole of your time, attention and abilities to the business of the Company and you shall not work
for anyone else while you are employed by the Company.

2.5.

You shall use your best endeavours to promote and protect the interests of the Company and shall faithfully and
diligently perform your duties and exercise such powers as may from time to time be assigned to or vested in you and
shall not do anything that is harmful to the Company.

3.

Place of work

3.1.

Your normal place of work is as per your offer letter or such other place as we may reasonably determine for the proper
performance and exercise of your duties.

3.2.

You agree to travel on the Company's business (both within the United Kingdom or abroad) as may be required for the
proper performance of your duties.

3.3.

You will not be required to work outside the UK for any continuous period of more than one month during the term of
your employment.

4.

Salary

4.1.

Your basic salary is as per your offer letter (gross per annum) which shall accrue from day to day and be payable
monthly in arrears on or about the 26th of each month directly in to your bank or building society account.

4.2.

Your salary will be reviewed annually and may be increased from time to time at the Company's discretion without
affecting the other terms of your employment. There is no obligation to award an increase. There will be no review of
the salary after notice has been given by either party to terminate your employment.

4.3.

We shall be entitled to deduct from your salary or other payments due to you any money which you may owe to the
Company at any time.

5.

Hours of work and rules

5.1.

Your normal hours of work are as per your offer letter. You may be required to work such additional hours as may be
necessary for the proper performance of your duties without extra remuneration.

5.2.

You are required at all times to comply with our rules, policies and procedures in force from time to time including
those contained in the Staff Handbook, a copy of which is available on our intranet. Serious breaches of those policies
may constitute gross misconduct and be a reason for the termination of your employment.

6.

Holidays

6.1.

The Company's holiday year runs between 1 January and 31 December. If your employment starts or finishes part way
through the holiday year, your holiday entitlement during that year shall be calculated on a pro-rata basis.

6.2.

You are entitled to paid holidays as per your offer letter during each holiday year or the pro rata equivalent if you work
part time. In addition, you are entitled to take the usual public holidays in England and Wales.

6.3.

You shall give at least four weeks' notice of any proposed holiday dates and these must be agreed by your Line
Manager in writing in advance. No more than 10 days' holiday may be taken at any one time unless prior consent is
obtained from your Line Manager. We may require you to take holiday on specific days as notified to you.

6.4.

You cannot carry untaken holiday entitlement forward from one holiday year to the following holiday year unless a
period of statutory maternity, paternity or adoption leave has prevented you from taking it in the relevant year. In
cases of sickness absence, carry-over is limited to four weeks' holiday per year less any leave taken during the holiday
year that has just ended. Any such carried over holiday which is not taken within eighteen months of the end of the
relevant holiday year will be lost.

6.5.

We shall not pay you in lieu of untaken holiday except on termination of employment. The amount of such payment in
lieu shall be 1/260th of your full-time equivalent salary for each untaken day of your entitlement or pro-rated to your
days of work. However, if we have dismissed you or would be entitled to dismiss you under clause 8.3 or you have
resigned without giving the required notice, such payment in lieu shall be limited to your statutory entitlement under
the Working Time Regulations 1998, and any paid holidays (including paid public holidays) taken shall be deemed first
to have been taken in satisfaction of that statutory entitlement.

6.6.

If you have taken more holiday than your accrued entitlement at the date your employment terminates, we shall be
entitled to deduct the excess holiday pay from any payments due to you calculated at 1/260th of your salary for each
excess day or pro-rated to your days of work.

7.

Incapacity

7.1.

If you are absent from work for any reason, you must notify your Line Manager of the reason for your absence as soon
as possible but no later than thirty minutes before your scheduled start time on the first day of absence.

7.2.

In all cases of absence, a self-certification form must be completed on your return to work and supplied to your Line
Manager. For any period of incapacity due to sickness or injury which lasts for seven consecutive days or more, a
doctor's certificate stating the reason for absence must be obtained at your own cost and supplied to your Line
Manager. Further certificates must be obtained if the absence continues for longer than the period of the original
certificate.

7.3.

You agree to consent to a medical examination (at our expense) by a doctor nominated by the Company should the
Company so require. You agree that any report produced in connection with any such examination may be disclosed to
the Company and the Company may discuss the contents of the report with the relevant doctor.

7.4.

You agree to consent to a medical examination (at the Company's expense) by a doctor nominated by the Company
should the Company so require. You agree that any report produced in connection with any such examination may be
disclosed to the Company and the Company may discuss the contents of the report with the relevant doctor.

7.5.

If you are absent from work, we shall always pay you Statutory Sick Pay (SSP) provided that you satisfy the relevant
requirements. Your qualifying days for SSP purposes are your normal working days.

7.6.

The company also operates a discretionary non-contractual sick pay scheme, details of which are available on the HR
Section of SharePoint.

8.

Termination and notice period

8.1.

After successful completion of the probationary period referred to in clause 1.2, the prior written notice required from
you or the Company to terminate your employment shall be as follows:

8.1.1.

6 weeks prior written notice until you have been continuously employed for six complete years at which time your
notice will be;
one week's notice for each completed year of continuous employment thereafter up to a maximum of 12 weeks' notice
after 12 years' continuous employment.

8.2.

We may at our discretion terminate your employment without notice and make a payment of basic salary in lieu of
notice.

8.3.

We shall be entitled to dismiss you at any time without notice or payment in lieu of notice if you commit a serious
breach of your obligations as an employee, or if you cease to be entitled to work in the United Kingdom.

8.4.

On termination of your employment (however arising) you shall:

8.4.1.

immediately deliver to the Company all company property, including but not limited to keys, security passes, credit
cards, vehicles, documents, books, computer hardware and software, media storage devices, access tokens, manuals,
materials, records, correspondence, papers and information (on whatever media and wherever located) relating to the
business or affairs of the Company or its business contacts and any other property of the Company which is in your
possession, custody or under your control;

8.4.2.

irretrievably delete any information relating to the business of the Company stored on any magnetic or optical disk or
memory and all matter derived from such sources which is in your possession or under your control outside the
Company's premises;

8.4.3.

not disclose any information, incidents or documents relating to information security or operational performance which
directly or indirectly names or infers or relates to the Company in any way.

8.5.

If the Company becomes aware that you have breached or failed to comply with clause 8.4 above, then it reserves the
right to take appropriate action including where necessary legal proceedings against you.

9.

Disciplinary and grievance procedures

9.1.

Your attention is drawn to the disciplinary and grievance procedures applicable to your employment which are
available on the company HR SharePoint. These procedures do not form part of your contract of employment.

9.2.

We reserve the right to suspend you with pay for no longer than is necessary to investigate any allegation of
misconduct against you or so long as is otherwise reasonable while any disciplinary procedure against you is
outstanding.

9.3.

If you wish to raise a grievance you may apply in writing to your line manager in accordance with our grievance
procedure.

10.

Pensions

10.1

The Company will comply with the employer pension duties in accordance with Part 1 of the Pensions Act 2008.

11.

Data protection

11.1.

We will collect and process information relating to you in accordance with the privacy notice which is on SharePoint.

11.2.

You shall comply with the Data protection policy when handling personal data in the course of employment including
personal data relating to any employee, worker, contractor, customer, client, supplier or agent of the Company.

11.3.

Failure to comply with the Data protection policy may be dealt with under our disciplinary procedure and, in serious
cases, may be treated as gross misconduct leading to summary dismissal.

12.

Collective agreement

12.1

There is no collective agreement which directly affects your employment.

13.

Changes to your terms of employment

13.1

We reserve the right to make reasonable changes to any of your terms of employment. You will be notified in writing of
any change as soon as possible and in any event within one month of the change.

14.

Confidential information

14.1.

You shall not use or disclose to any person either during or at any time after your employment with the Company any
confidential information. For the purposes of this clause 14, confidential information means any information or matter
about the business or affairs of the Company or about any other matters which may come to your knowledge in the
course of your employment, and which is not in the public domain or which is in the public domain as a result of your
breach of this agreement.

14.2.

The restriction in clause 14.1 does not apply to:

14.2.1.

prevent you from making a protected disclosure within the meaning of section 43A of the Employment Rights Act 1996;
or

14.2.2.

use or disclosure that has been authorised by the Company, is required by law or by your employment.

14.3.

The provisions of Schedule 1 apply, and you agree to comply with this schedule in full.

15.

Restrictive Covenants

15.1

You acknowledge that following the termination of your Employment you will be in a position to compete unfairly with
the Company as a result of confidential information, trade secrets and knowledge about the business, operation,
customers, employees and trade connections of the Company acquired and through connections you will have
developed. You therefore agree to enter into the restrictions in Schedule 2 in full.

16.

Intellectual Property

16.1.

You will promptly disclose to the Company and keep confidential all inventions, designs, copyright works, ideas,
products, process, improvements, design, software development, or any other development (the Intellectual Property
Rights”), devised by or originated by you on your own or with others in the course of your Employment, or in
connection with or in any way affecting or relating to the business of the Company, or capable of being used or adapted
for use therein or in connection therewith, shall forthwith be disclosed to the Company and shall belong to and be the
absolute property of the Company or such other persons as the Company may require. The copyright in any material
written by you in the course of your Employment shall vest in the Company and the Company shall have the sole right
to licence such Intellectual Property rights and to receive any such royalties.

16.2.

In the event of termination of your Employment with the Company, you shall not be entitled to use the aforesaid
Intellectual Property Rights except under licence from the Company. The Company will have sole discretion as to
whether it is willing to grant you a licence.

16.3.

You will provide the Company with full details and information with regard to any of the matters specified in the
preceding sub-clauses 16.1 and 16.2 and will if necessary, at the Company's expense, apply or join with the Company in
applying for the appropriate protection of such matters in the United Kingdom or in any other part of the world.

17.

Company property

17.1.

All documents, manuals, hardware and software provided for your use by the Company, and any data or documents
(including copies) produced, maintained or stored on the Company's computer systems or other electronic equipment
(including mobile phones), remain the property of the Company.

17.2.

Any Company property in your possession and any original or copy documents obtained by you in the course of your
employment shall be returned to your Line Manager at any time on request and in any event prior to the termination of
your employment with the Company.

18.

Third party rights

18.1

No one other than you and the Company shall have any right to enforce any terms of this agreement.

19.

Governing law and jurisdiction

19.1.

This Agreement and any dispute or claim arising out of or in connection with it or its subject matter or formation
(including non-contractual disputes or claims) shall be governed by and construed in accordance with English law.

19.2.

The parties irrevocably agree that the courts of England and Wales shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute
or claim that arises out of or in connection with this Agreement or its subject matter or formation (including noncontractual disputes or claims).

SCHEDULE 1 – CONFIDENTIALITY
1.

In consideration of the Company agreeing to employ me, I hereby undertake that I:

1.1

shall keep secret and confidential any information about the Company, trade secrets, know how, confidential
knowledge, know-how or information, customer or price lists, financial, trading or other confidential information
relating to the Company (“Information”) supplied to me in connection with my appointment;

1.2

shall not disclose any Information to any third party outside the Company (other than as required by law);

1.3

shall not disclose any Information to any of the Company’s directors, officers, employees or consultants except those
who need to know that Information for the purposes of his office, employment or consultancy;

1.4

shall use all such Information for the sole purpose of carrying out my duties as an employee.

1.5

shall, on demand from the Company or if I cease to be as an employee return any written information so provided
without keeping any copies thereof and either hand over to you or destroy all notes or memoranda or other stored
information of any kind prepared by me relating to any Information and, if required swear an affidavit that I have
complied with this obligation;

1.6

shall procure that any person to whom disclosure of Information is made by me agrees in writing to adhere to the
terms of this letter as if they were a party hereto;

1.7

shall not disclose any terms of this Employment Contract with any employee of the Company below the level of
Director;

1.8

have disclosed accurate information (in writing and verbally) during my application for this role including my
education and employment record and that all references are genuine;

1.9

will not undertake a secondary form of employment or significant source of income whilst employed by the Company,
without disclosing and agreeing such activity with Line Manager beforehand;

1.10 do not currently have an undisclosed criminal record, nor have any court action pending, nor had prior employment

terminated due to a breach of trust confidentiality, nor other disciplinary event and if I am involved, at any time
during my employment, in any criminal court proceedings or action against myself, I shall immediate declare such to
my Line Manager; and

SCHEDULE 2 – POST-TERMINATION RESTRICTIONS
1.1

You acknowledge that following the termination of your employment you will be in a position to compete unfairly with
the Company as a result of confidential information, trade secrets and knowledge about the business, operation,
customers, employees and trade connections of the Company acquired and through connections you will have
developed. You therefore agree to enter into the restrictions in this Schedule 2 for the purpose of protecting the
Company’s business interests and in particular the confidential information, goodwill and the stable trained workforce of
the Company.

1.2

The following definitions and rules of interpretation apply in this Schedule 2.

1.2.1

“Employment” means the employment of you by the Company on the terms of this agreement.

1.2.2

“Board” means the board of directors of the Company (including any committee of the board duly appointed by it).

1.2.3

“Capacity” as agent, consultant, director, employee, owner, partner, shareholder or in any other capacity.

1.2.4

“Confidential Information” means information (whether or not recorded in documentary form, or stored on any
magnetic or optical disk or memory) which is not in the public domain relating to the business, products, affairs and
finances of the Company any Group Company for the time being confidential to the Company or any Group
Company and trade secrets including, without limitation, technical data and know-how relating to the business of
the Company or any Group Company or any of its or their business contacts, including in particular (by way of
illustration only and without limitation).

1.2.5

“Garden Leave” means any period during which the Company has required you not to do any work or contact the
Company’s employees or business contacts.

1.2.6

“Group Company” means the Company, its Subsidiaries or Holding Companies from time to time and any Subsidiary
of any Holding Company from time to time.

1.2.7

“Restricted Business” means those parts of the business of the Company and any Group Company with which you
were involved to a material extent in the 12 months before Termination.

1.2.8

”Restricted Customer” means any firm, company or person who, during the 12 months before Termination, was a
customer or prospective customer of or in the habit of dealing with the Company or any Group Company with
whom you had contact or about whom you became aware or informed in the course of your employment.

1.2.9

”Restricted Person” means anyone employed or engaged by the Company or any Group Company and who could
materially damage the interests of the Company or any Group Company if they were involved in any Capacity in any
business concern which competes with any Restricted Business and with whom you dealt in the 12 months before
Termination in the course of your employment.

1.2.10

”Subsidiary and Holding Company” in relation to a company mean “subsidiary” and “holding company” as defined in
section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006 and a company shall be treated, for the purposes only of the membership
requirement contained in subsections 1159(1)(b) and (c), as a member of another company even if its shares in that
other company are registered in the name of (a) another person (or its nominee), whether by way of security or in
connection with the taking of security, or (b) a nominee.

1.2.11

”Termination” means the termination of your employment with the Company howsoever caused.

1.3 Post-termination restrictions

In order to protect the Confidential Information and business connections of the Company and each Group Company to
which you had access as a result of your employment with the Company, you hereby covenant with the Company (for
itself and as trustee and agent for each Group Company) that you shall not:

1.3.1 for six months after Termination, solicit or endeavour to entice away from the Company or any Group Company the

business or custom of a Restricted Customer with a view to providing goods or services to that Restricted Customer in
competition with any Restricted Business;

1.3.2 for six months after Termination in the course of any business concern which is in competition with any Restricted

Business, offer to employ or engage or otherwise endeavour to entice away from the Company or any Group Company
any Restricted Person;

1.3.3 for six months after Termination in the course of any business concern which is in competition with any Restricted

Business, employ or engage or otherwise facilitate the employment or engagement of any Restricted Person, whether or
not such person would be in breach of contract as a result of such employment or engagement;

1.3.4 for six months after Termination, be involved in any Capacity with any business concern which is (or intends to be) in

competition with any Restricted Business;

1.3.5 for six months after Termination, be involved with the provision of goods or services to (or otherwise have any business

dealings with) any Restricted Customer in the course of any business concern which is in competition with any Restricted
Business; or

1.3.6 at any time after Termination, represent himself as connected with the Company or any Group Company in any Capacity,

other than as a former employee, or use any registered names or trading names associated with the Company or any
Group Company.

1.4. None of the restrictions in clause 2.1 shall prevent you from:
1.5 holding an investment by way of shares or other securities of not more than 5% of the total issued share capital of any
company, whether or not it is listed or dealt in on a recognised stock exchange; orbeing engaged or concerned in any business
concern insofar as your duties or work shall relate solely to geographical areas where the business concern is not in
competition with any Restricted Business; or

1.6 being engaged or concerned in any business concern, provided that your duties or work shall relate solely to services or

activities of a kind with which you were not concerned to a material extent in the 12 months before Termination.

1.7 The restrictions imposed on you by the job description apply to you acting:

1.7.1

directly or indirectly; and

1.7.2

on your own behalf or on behalf of, or in conjunction with, any firm, company or person.

1.8

The periods for which the restrictions in paragraph 1.3 of Schedule 2 above apply shall be reduced by any period
that you spend on Garden Leave immediately before Termination.

1.9

If you receive an offer to be involved in a business concern in any Capacity during your employment, or before the
expiry of the last of the covenants in paragraph 1.3 of Schedule 2, you shall give the person making the offer a copy
of this Schedule 2.

1.10 If, at any time during your employment, two or more Restricted Persons have left their employment, appointment

or engagement with the Company to perform Restricted Business for a business concern which is, or intends to be,
in competition with any Restricted Business, you will not at any time during the six months following the last date
on which any of those Restricted Persons were employed or engaged by the Company, be employed or engaged in

any way with that business concern under which you will perform Restricted Business on the behalf of that business
concern.
1.11 The Company and you have entered into the restrictions in this Schedule 2 having been separately legally advised.

1.12 Each of the restrictions in this Schedule 2 is intended to be separate and severable. If any of the restrictions shall be

held to be void but would be valid if part of their wording were deleted, such restriction shall apply with such
deletion as may be necessary to make it valid or effective.

1.13 If your employment is transferred to any firm, company, person or entity other than a Group Company (the “New

Employer”) pursuant to the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006, you will, if
required, enter into an agreement with the New Employer containing post-termination restrictions corresponding
to those restrictions in this schedule 2, protecting the confidential information, trade secrets and business
connections of the New Employer.

1.14 You will, at the request and expense of the Company, enter into a separate agreement with any Group Company in

which you agree to be bound by restrictions corresponding to those restrictions in this Schedule 2 (or such of those
restrictions as may be appropriate) in relation to that Group Company.

